Convert vernac commands chapter to prodn, update syntax (#11961)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/proof-engine/vernacular-commands.rst

.. _displaying:

Displaying
----------

.. _Print:

.. cmd:: Print @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

   This command displays information about the object identified by :n:`@smart_qualid`.

>    :n:`{? @%{ {* @name } %} }` locally renames the polymorphic universes of :n:`@smart_qualid`.

Author: Got it.  Still thinking about how to show the syntax in the explanations, such as whether to have bullet list for *every*.  Also whether the outer option `{? ... } should be repeated when we only talk about when it's present, with the optionality covered in the main syntax and in "When ... is provided".

.. _displaying:

Displaying
----------

.. _Print:

.. cmd:: Print {? Term } @smart_qualid {? @univ_name_list }

   .. insertprodn univ_name_list univ_name_list

   .. prodn::
      univ_name_list ::= @%{ {* @name } %}

>    Displays information about the object identified by :n:`@smart_qualid`.

Reviewer: BTW, "information" is a bit vague. The main point of this command is to print the definitions of terms, even opaque terms (defined in proof mode with an ending `Qed`):

```coq
Theorem A : True.
easy.
Qed.
Print A.
(*
A = I
     : True
*)
```

>    * :n:`Term` - a syntactic marker to allow printing a :n:`@smart_qualid`

Reviewer: Would read better, and this is the only relevant use case anyway:

```suggestion
   * :n:`Term` - a syntactic marker to allow printing a term
```

     that is the same as one of the various :n:`Print` commands.  For example,
     :cmd:`Print All` is a different command, while :n:`Print Term All` shows

>      information on the :n:`@smart_qualid` ":n:`All`".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     information on the term whose name is "`All`".
```

If you want to be fully general:
```suggestion
     information on the object whose name is "`All`".
```

      :undocumented:

> .. cmd:: Print Term @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

Reviewer 2: My apologies for the mistake.  It might be worth pointing out the remaining difference, though:

```
Definition Module := 1.
Print Term Module.

Definition All := 1.
Print All.
Print Term All.

Definition Graph := tt.
Print Graph.
Print Term Graph.
```

etc.

> .. cmd:: Print Term @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

Author: No worries, will do.  FWIW, I think "contrary" is much more commonly used.  I don't think I ever use "contrarily".  YMMV.

> .. cmd:: Print Term @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

Author: I see they behave differently, but I don't know what to say about it.  The old text doesn't fully explain the difference is.  It says "This is a synonym of :cmd:`Print` :n:`@qualid` when :n:`@qualid` denotes a global constant."  What does it do if it's not a global constant?

> .. cmd:: Print Term @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

Reviewer: @jfehrle From what I get from Clément's comment, they behave the same, it's just that `Print Term` can serve to disambiguate at the grammar level between `Print @qualid` and another `Print` command, when `@qualid` is named `Module`, `All`, `Graph`, etc.

> .. cmd:: Print Term @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

Author: I see.  It didn't occur to me that "Print Graph" and "Print All" were separate commands.

> .. cmd:: Print Term @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

Reviewer: That's the issue with having 45 such commands!

   This is a synonym of :cmd:`Print` :n:`@qualid` where :n:`@qualid`
   denotes a global constant.

   :n:`{? @%{ {* @name } %} }` locally renames the polymorphic universes of :n:`@smart_qualid`.
   An underscore means the usual name is printed.

.. cmd:: About @smart_qualid {? @%{ {* @name } %} }

   This displays various information about the object
   denoted by :n:`@smart_qualid`: its kind (module, constant, assumption, inductive,
   constructor, abbreviation, …), long name, type, implicit arguments and
   argument scopes. It does not print the body of definitions or proofs.

   :n:`{? @%{ {* @name } %} }` locally renames the polymorphic universes of :n:`@smart_qualid`.
   An underscore means the usual name is printed.

.. cmd:: Print All

   This command displays information about the current state of the
   environment, including sections and modules.

.. cmd:: Inspect @num

   This command displays the :n:`@num` last objects of the
   current environment, including sections and modules.

.. cmd:: Print Section @qualid

   Displays the objects defined since the beginning of the section named :n:`@qualid`.

>    .. todo: how does that work for, say, "A.B"?

Author: Perhaps the command should take an @ident rather than a @qualid.

>    .. todo: how does that work for, say, "A.B"?

Reviewer: I feel like this is not worth changing.

Coq has many settings to control its behavior.  Setting types include flags, options
and tables:

* A *flag* has a boolean value, such as :flag:`Asymmetric Patterns`.
* An *option* generally has a numeric or string value, such as :opt:`Firstorder Depth`.
* A *table* contains a set of strings or qualids.
* In addition, some commands provide settings, such as :cmd:`Extraction Language`.

.. FIXME Convert "Extraction Language" to an option.

Flags, options and tables are identified by a series of identifiers, each with an initial
capital letter.

.. cmd:: Set @setting_name {? {| @int | @string } }
   :name: Set

   .. insertprodn setting_name setting_name

   .. prodn::
      setting_name ::= {+ @ident }

   If :n:`@setting_name` is a flag, no value may be provided; the flag
   is set to on.
   If :n:`@setting_name` is an option, a value of the appropriate type
   must be provided; the option is set to the specified value.

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

>    .. exn:: There is no option @setting_name.

Reviewer: This is a warning:
```suggestion
   .. warn:: There is no option @setting_name.
```

Author: What's the practical difference for the user between a warning and an error?  We know what it means when compiling OCaml--error means the operation (compile) fails, but warnings don't necessarily cause a failure.  By that logic, shouldn't this be an error since the operation fails?

Reviewer: > What's the practical difference for the user between a warning and an error?

This means that the file containing such commands is still valid. This is not an error on purpose because sometimes you need to use some compatibility options to make a file compile with several versions of Coq, but this compatibility option might not exist in all these versions. Cf. https://github.com/coq/coq/blob/c5c8ce135606f311834d4c0b9ac3e72be5ee4a36/library/goptions.ml#L356-L358

      This message also appears for unknown flags.

.. cmd:: Unset @setting_name
   :name: Unset

   If :n:`@setting_name` is a flag, it is set to off.  If :n:`@setting_name` is an option, it is
   set to its default value.

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

.. cmd:: Test @setting_name {? for {+ {| @qualid | @string } } }

>    If :n:`@setting_name` is a flag or option, prints its the current value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If :n:`@setting_name` is a flag or option, prints its current value.
```

>    If :n:`@setting_name` is a table: if a value is specified, reports whether

Reviewer: One or several values are provided. And the description should be clearer on the fact that this is done with the `for` clause.

>    the table contains the specified value, otherise this is equivalen to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the table contains the specified value, otherise this is equivalent to
```

The description should be clearer on the fact that the `for` clause is only for tables.

Coq has many settings to control its behavior.  Setting types include flags, options
and tables:

* A **flag** has a boolean value, such as :flag:`Asymmetric Patterns`.
* An **option** generally has a numeric or string value, such as :opt:`Firstorder Depth`.
* A **table** contains a set of strings or qualids.
* In addition, some commands provide settings, such as :cmd:`Extraction Language`.

.. FIXME Convert "Extraction Language" to an option.

Flags, options and tables are identified by a series of identifiers, each with an initial
capital letter.

.. cmd:: Set @setting_name {? {| @int | @string } }
   :name: Set

   .. insertprodn setting_name setting_name

   .. prodn::
      setting_name ::= {+ @ident }

>    If :n:`setting_name` is a flag, sets the flag :n:`@setting_name` to on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If :n:`setting_name` is a flag, no value should be provided by the user. The command sets the flag :n:`@setting_name` to on.
```

>    If :n:`setting_name` is an option, sets the option to the specified value,
>    which must be of the appropriate type for the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If :n:`setting_name` is an option, a value of the appropriate type should be provided by the user.
   The command sets the option to the specified value.
```

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

   .. todo "Set Hyps Limit." gives "Bad type of value for this option: expected int, got bool."
      I can create an issue--when do you think someone might get to this?  The issue backlog
      is another topic for discussion/action.

   .. exn:: There is no option @setting_name.

      This message also appears for unknown flags.

.. cmd:: Set @setting_name {| @int | @string }
   :name: Set option

   Sets the option :n:`@setting_name` to the specified value, which
   must be of the appropriate type for the option.

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

.. cmd:: Unset @setting_name
   :name: Unset

   If :n:`@setting_name` is a flag, it is set to off.  If :n:`@setting_name` is an option, it is
   set to its default value.

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

>    .. todo doesn't work for "Diffs"

Reviewer: Fixed in #11997.

.. cmd:: Test @setting_name
   :name: Test flag/option

   Prints the current value of the flag or option :n:`@setting_name`.

.. cmd:: Print Options

   Prints the current value of all flags and options, and the names of all tables.

.. cmd:: Add @setting_name {+ {| @qualid | @string } }
   :name: Add table

   Adds the specified values to the table :n:`@setting_name`.

.. cmd:: Remove @setting_name {+ {| @qualid | @string } }
   :name: Remove table

   Removes the specified value from the table :n:`@setting_name`.

.. cmd:: Test @setting_name {? for {+ {| @qualid | @string } } }
   :name: Test table

   If a value is given, reports whether the table :n:`@setting_name` contains the specified value.
   Otherwise, this is equivalent to :cmd:`Print Table`.

.. cmd:: Print Table @setting_name

   Prints the values in the table :n:`@setting_name`.

.. cmd:: Print Tables

   A synonym for :cmd:`Print Options`.

.. _set_unset_scope_qualifiers:

> Locality attributes supported by :n:`Set` and :cmd:`Unset`

Reviewer: Keep the `cmd` please. Like I said, I think the index for the command should be just `Set`. If you want to consolidate the two variants in one, that's fine by me.

Flags, options and tables are identified by a series of identifiers, each with an initial
capital letter.

> .. cmd:: {? Export } Set {+ @ident }

Author: > the fact that flags, options and tables are identified by a series of space separated idents is an implementation detail that should not be exposed to the reader

Huh?  Isn't it completely obvious if you glance at the list of flags and options?  And the user does need to type these spaces.  I'll re-introduce `option_table`, which I spliced earlier, and rename it to `setting_name`.  And use that for `Add` and `Remove`.  That will simplify the descriptions and syntax.

> this fact is even uglier and thus more reasonable to hide when you discover that tables can be identified by at most two identifiers

Since AFAIK we don't have user-defined tables, users will never be aware of this.

Take a look what I have now.

> .. cmd:: {? Export } Set {+ @ident }

Reviewer: Thanks, your new version looks good to me. But in this case, you can remove the `:production:` from the bullet-point list above (and simply replace them with bold).

> .. cmd:: {? Export } Set {+ @ident }

Author: I made it bold.  Elsewhere I've used italics when I'm introducing a defined term.  This seems like a defined term, so should it just be italic?

> .. cmd:: {? Export } Set {+ @ident }

Author: > But it should not be displayed here, like `Local` and `Global` are not displayed either.

Leaving `Export` undocumented :-(

> .. cmd:: {? Export } Set {+ @ident }

Reviewer: Italic seems good as well.

`Export` *is* documented. Cf. https://coq.gitlab.io/-/coq/-/jobs/491537737/artifacts/_install_ci/share/doc/coq/sphinx/html/proof-engine/vernacular-commands.html#locality-attributes-supported-by-set-and-unset.

BTW, there is a discrepancy between various quoting strategies. Sometimes, you use `:n:` quoting just to get bold even if it doesn't contain any notation. This is a bit heavy. It would seem that single backticks behave the same, whereas double backticks give something that much less visible (and not bold). Finally, I don't know what we should do about `:g:` but currently people don't know how to use it and it brings no benefit.

> .. cmd:: {? Export } Set {+ @ident }

Author: I'll try to use single backticks going forward.

   :name: Set

   Sets the flag identified by the :n:`@ident`\s to on.

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

   .. todo shouldn't export be included in the legacy_attr NT and listed in the table
      in the gallina/Attributes section?  And not shown here?

   .. todo "Set Hyps Limit." gives "Bad type of value for this option: expected int, got bool."
      I can create an issue--when do you think someone might get to this?  The issue backlog

>       is another topic for discussion/action.

Reviewer: I don't understand what is the issue, except that this error message should be documented. Or do you mean that the error message should be clearer (like "Hyps Limit" is an option expecting a number, not a flag)?

BTW, another thing that is not currently documented but should be is the warning "There is no option {+ @ident }."

Author: The issue is that no value was provided for the option.  The message should be say that.

Reviewer: No value is interpreted as value `true` (if you consider that flags are "just" boolean options). I agree that this is confusing. Feel free to open a PR changing the message. In any case, it should be documented.

Author: This in an int-valued option, not a flag.  Would you be willing to add a check for this in #11997?  Perhaps declare_*_option could pass the type (flag, bool option, int option, table) to declare_option, which could remember it so that it's easy to check the type when the value is not provided in the `Set`.  And if so, generate a better error message?

I'd rather not touch the options code while you're working on #11997.

Reviewer: I think you are misunderstanding how the code works. Flags are just considered as boolean values in the code base. And `Set flag` without a value is interpreted as setting an option to `true`. Thus the "type error". But yeah, since I've started working on the option code, I'll try to do this improvement to the error message myself.

Reviewer: See #12003.

   must be of the appropriate type for the option.

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

.. cmd:: {? Export } Unset {+ @ident }
   :name: Unset

   If :n:`@ident`\s is a flag, it is set to off.  If :n:`@ident`\s is an option, it is
   set to its default value.

   This command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export` attributes.
   They are described :ref:`here <set_unset_scope_qualifiers>`.

   .. todo doesn't work for "Diffs"

.. cmd:: Test {+ @ident }
   :name: Test @flag/@option

   Prints the current value of the flag or option identified by the :n:`@ident`\s.

.. cmd:: Print Options

   Prints the current value of all flags and options, and the names of all tables.

.. cmd:: Add @ident {? @ident } {+ {| @qualid | @string } }
   :name: Add @table

   Adds the specified values to the table identified by the :n:`@ident`.

   .. todo: are tables identified by a single ident or is this command limited
      What are the first two idents?
      It handles multiple values?

>       Is it used much?

Reviewer: All the tables that are currently documented are two ident long. My guess is that a parsing disambiguation problem prevents from having longer table names.

   arguments ``-set`` and ``-unset`` for setting flags and options
   (cf. :ref:`command-line-options`).

Query commands
--------------

> Unlike other commands, if a proof is open, query commands may be prefixed with
> :n:`@selector:` to specify which subgoal(s) should be included.  If no selector is provided,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike other commands, if a proof is open, query commands may be prefixed with
a goal selector (:n:`@num:`) to specify in the context of which goal context, it applies.  If no selector is provided,
```

It's not a syntactic restriction, but query commands only support a single numbered goal selector.

So the "goals" must be replaced by "goal" in the following descriptions.

   constructor, abbreviation, …), long name, type, implicit arguments and
   argument scopes. It does not print the body of definitions or proofs.

.. cmd:: Check @term

   Displays the type of :n:`@term`. When called in proof mode, the
   term is checked in the local context of the selected goal(s).

.. cmd:: Eval @red_expr in @term

   Performs the specified reduction on :n:`@term`, and displays
   the resulting term with its type. The term to be reduced may depend on
   hypotheses introduced in the selected goals (if a proof is in
   progress).

   .. seealso:: Section :ref:`performingcomputations`.

.. cmd:: Compute @term

   Evaluates :n:`@term` using the bytecode-based virtual machine.
   If a proof is open, :n:`@term` may reference hypotheses of the
   selected goal.  It is a shortcut for :cmd:`Eval` :n:`vm_compute in
   @term`.

   .. seealso:: Section :ref:`performingcomputations`.

.. _requests-to-the-environment:

Requests to the environment
-------------------------------

.. cmd:: Print Assumptions @smart_qualid

   Displays all the assumptions (axioms, parameters and
   variables) a theorem or definition depends on.

>    .. exn:: Closed under the global context

Reviewer: This is the output of the command in case it doesn't depend on any assumption, not an error message (thankfully!).

Author: You want a change here?

We have `exn` and `warn` but nothing for simple messages.  Something to add later?

Reviewer: Yes, maybe use a note, or some regular text. We would need to see how frequently simple messages need to be documented to decide if that's worth some special directive.

Author: Made it a warning, without explanation.  Thought explaining it's only a message would just look dumb (and pointless since IIUC there's no user-relevant difference between a warning and a message except maybe for the color used to print it).  Adding `msg::` is very easy.

Reviewer: No, marking this as a warning is not appropriate. Warnings are things people generally want to avoid and there is support to transform warnings into errors. The message could simply be presented in the paragraph. I'm not sure how useful a new directive would be.

      The theorem or definition doesn't depend on any assumptions.

.. cmd:: Print Opaque Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays the assumptions and opaque constants that :n:`@smart_qualid` depends on.

.. cmd:: Print Transparent Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays the assumptions and  transparent constants that :n:`@smart_qualid` depends on.

.. cmd:: Print All Dependencies @smart_qualid

>    Displays all the assumptions and constants :n:`@smart_qualid` relies on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Displays all the assumptions and constants :n:`@smart_qualid` depends on.
```

Let's be consistent with the previous descriptions.

.. todo: move Search* to the section on query commands once we agree on the wording

.. cmd:: Search {+ @search_item } {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   .. insertprodn search_item search_item

   .. prodn::
      search_item ::= {? - } @string {? @scope }
      | {? - } @one_term

   Todo: :n:`@scope ::= % @ident` (fix in syntax extensions)

   Displays the name and type of objects matching :n:`@search_item`\s

>    in the selected goals (if a proof is open)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   in the context of the selected goal (if a proof is open)
```

Or even better, use a formulation closer to the one you used for `SearchHead`, `SearchPattern` and `SearchRewrite` (very good!).

   as well as accessible theorems, axioms, etc..
   It's useful for finding the names of library lemmas.

>    * :n:`@string` - If :n:`@string` is a substring of a valid identifier,

Reviewer: I think there should be an introduction like "search_items may be of two kinds:"
In fact, I wonder whether the explanation on the kinds of search_items should not be split in *three* kinds, since string as subparts of identifiers and strings denoting notations are two different notions. And the explanation on the scope only applies to the latter.

Author: I think it's pretty clear there are 2 cases from the `@search_item` syntax.  Showing 3 cases makes the grammar ambiguous.  I added text to `% scope` saying it's only valid for notation strings.

     search for objects whose name contains :n:`@string`. If :n:`@string` is a notation
     string associated with a :n:`@qualid`, that's equivalent to :cmd:`Search` :n:`@qualid`.
     For example, specifying "+" or "_ + _", which are notations for "plus", are equivalent
     to :cmd:`Search` :n:`plus`.

   * :n:`@scope` - limits the search to the scope bound to
     the delimiting key :n:`@scope`, such as, for example, :n:`%nat`
     (see Section :ref:`LocalInterpretationRulesForNotations`).

   If you specify multiple :n:`@search_item`\s, all the conditions must be satisfied

>    for the object to be displayed.

Reviewer: There's no reason that this appears before the explanation of the `one_term` kind of search_item.

   * :n:`@one_term` - Search for objects containing a subterm matching the pattern
     :n:`@one_term` in which holes of the pattern are indicated by `_` or :n:`?@ident`.
     If the same :n:`?@ident` occurs more than once in the pattern, all occurrences must
     match the same value.

>    * :n:`{? - }` - excludes objects that contain the :n:`@string` or :n:`@one_term`

Reviewer: As a reminder, I suggested moving this `{? - }` out of `search_item`. Then you could say:
```suggestion
   * :n:`{? - }` - excludes objects that contain the :n:`@search_item`
```

BTW this bullet point could be merged with the paragraph on specifying multiple `search_item`. Indeed, using `-` only makes sense when specifying more than one (otherwise you get too many results).

   * :n:`inside {+ @qualid }` - limit the search to the specified modules

>    * :n:`outside {+ @qualid }` - exclude the specified modules from the search

Reviewer: These two could get an introduction sentence like "Additional clauses:"

>    .. exn:: The reference @qualid was not found in the current environment.

Reviewer: It would be great if there was a way to highlight that this error message is specific to the use of the clauses above.

      There is no constant in the environment named :n:`@qualid`.

>       .. example:: :cmd:`Search` examples

Reviewer: This example is indented too much, as if it was part of the explanation of the error message above.

     This clause may be used only if :n:`@string` contains a notation string.
     (see Section :ref:`LocalInterpretationRulesForNotations`)

   If you specify multiple :n:`@search_item`\s, all the conditions must be satisfied
   for the object to be displayed.  `{? - }` excludes objects that contain the :n:`@search_item`.

   Additional clauses:

   * :n:`inside {+ @qualid }` - limit the search to the specified modules
   * :n:`outside {+ @qualid }` - exclude the specified modules from the search

   .. exn:: Module/section @qualid not found.

      There is no constant in the environment named :n:`@qualid`, where :n:`@qualid`
      is in an `inside` or `outside` clause.

   .. example:: :cmd:`Search` examples

      .. coqtop:: in

         Require Import ZArith.

      .. coqtop:: all

         Search Z.mul Z.add "distr".
         Search "+"%Z "*"%Z "distr" -Prop.
         Search (?x * _ + ?x * _)%Z outside OmegaLemmas.

.. cmd:: SearchHead @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goal (if any) and theorems of the current context that have the

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: My impression is that `@one_term` is a pattern and that it's pattern-matched to C.  Would it help to say "where the pattern `@one_term` ..."?

`@one_term {* _ }`, if it is a precise statement, introduces the idea of substitution into the pattern which then may need a little explanation here.  Or perhaps I'm confused?

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: You are correct that `one_term` is a pattern, but what you are missing (in this explanation at least) is that with `SearchHead` it may be matched against a "head" of C, i.e., a non-fully applied term. What I meant by `@one_term (* _ }` is that what matches C is `one_term` applied to the right number of holes. See the examples I gave you previously and those which are in the doc.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: A concrete example (not necessarily runnable) that doesn't fit the wording is often the easiest for me to understand.

Are you referring to your example `SearchHead (_ = _ -> _ + _ = _ + _).` and that the pattern includes `->` whereas the wording suggests that C doesn't contain `->` (at least not at the top level)? Didn't see anything in the SearchHead examples in the doc that seem relevant.

By "head", I expect you mean starting from the root of the expression.  Don't see how "non-fully applied term" fits in here; IIUC your phrase refers to creating new function by providing some of its initial arguments similar to OCaml.

(FWIW GitHub doesn't make it so easy to find things in big conversations; some conversations are not loaded, then you have to unhide things before you search in the browser window.  Similar in Gmail--older message headers have to be expanded first.)

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: > Are you referring to your example `SearchHead (_ = _ -> _ + _ = _ + _).` and that the pattern includes `->` whereas the wording suggests that C doesn't contain `->` (at least not at the top level)?

Not this one but the two in the doc are relevant:

```
SearchHead le.
SearchHead (@eq bool).
```

none of these would return any result when using `SearchPattern` instead of `SearchHead`.

>By "head", I expect you mean starting from the root of the expression.

No, I said "head of C".

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: So for instance, C is `n <= m` and it wouldn't be matched by the pattern `le`, but it is matched by `le _ _` (same as `_ <= _`) and thus by `SeachHead le`. Similarly for `@eq bool` which matches any `_ = _` between bools.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: > >By "head", I expect you mean starting from the root of the expression.

> No, I said "head of C".

I was asking to confirm the definition of "head" and by "expression" I meant C.  "Head of C" just means the root of the expression tree for C?

> So for instance, C is `n <= m` and it wouldn't be matched by the pattern `le` ...

OK, I get the example, thanks.

I intended that "matches" in ```where :n:`@one_term` matches `C` ``` mean how Coq does matching for this command--a defined term, not meaning "equal".  If we use the unfamiliar `(@one_term t__1 ... t__m)` notation, where is that explained?  Perhaps patterns define functions (even for terms that don't look like functions) and this application just means substitution?  If we introduce the `t__1 ... t__m` there should be some explanation.

If other commands use the same type of matching, the description should be in its own section and hyperlinked.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: > > 
> 
> I was asking to confirm the definition of "head" and by "expression" I meant C. "Head of C" just means the root of the expression tree for C?

Yes.

> I intended that "matches" in `` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C` `` mean how Coq does matching for this command--a defined term, not meaning "equal". If we use the unfamiliar `(@one_term t__1 ... t__m)` notation, where is that explained? In either case it needs to be explained.

Sure. In fact, there is a missing section about unification in the "Language extensions" chapter, which would explain all that stuff. "match" would be defined there. It means unify two terms where some parts of the terms may be holes. "le" does not match "le _ _".

>  If we introduce the `t__1 ... t__m` there should be some explanation.

In fact, my preference would be to have `_ ... _` to express the additional holes.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: OK.  What stopgap wording can I do here for now?  I still lean towards calling it C since I don't have to explain the Tm or `_ ... _.  I could say "unifies by matching" and give your example as a note below.

I guess `le` matches a reference to that definition while `le _ _` matches a node with 2 subterms.  Are there other important cases worth mentioning without going too deep?

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: > I could say "matches by unification".

No "matches by unification" would be exactly the same as "matches". You could say "the pattern matches a head of `C` (i.e., the pattern applied to sufficiently many holes matches `C`)."

>Are there other important cases worth mentioning without going too deep?

I don't think so.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: Not quite there yet.  I don't fully understand the description you suggest.

There's only one head for any expression, so it should be "the head", not "a head", right?  Nor do we define "head" anywhere in the document AFAIK.  But that should not be defined here.  Even so, if we left out "a/the head", I think readers would expect that the entire expression C has to be matched, not merely a subterm of C (cf. use of "subterms" in `Search`).

> Perhaps patterns define functions (even for terms that don't look like functions) and this application just means substitution?

It would really help if you would confirm or correct this guess.

If the parenthetical comment wasn't there, does that change the meaning?  If so, would you give a concrete example that would be incorrectly allowed without the comment?  Or is it just additional explanation for the user?

"sufficiently many holes" - I don't see why this is important.  If the pattern is considered a function, the *holes* are the parameters and the function is applied to *values* passed parameters.  I suppose you could partially apply a pattern function to get a new function, but that doesn't seem relevant.

Your thoughts?

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: > There's only one head for any expression, so it should be "the head", not "a head", right?

Generally yes, the head of an expression is what you get at the beginning when you have decomposed your expression into applications. So in `x t_1 t_2 t_3`, the head is `x`. But in the case of `SearchHead`, the pattern can match the head of "C" *or* the head of "C" + the few first sub-terms to which it is applied in C *or* the entire "C". That's why I wrote "a head", as a generalization of the previous definition. But I agree that this is not very clear.

> not merely a subterm of C

That's not any subterm though.

>Perhaps patterns define functions (even for terms that don't look like functions) and this application just means substitution?

I'm sorry but I don't understand what this means.

>If the parenthetical comment wasn't there, does that change the meaning?

I'm not sure which one you are talking about. Are you taking about "(i.e., the pattern applied to sufficiently many holes matches C)". It does not change the meaning, it specifies what I meant "the pattern matches *a* head".

>"sufficiently many holes" - I don't see why this is important. If the pattern is considered a function, the holes are the parameters and the function is applied to values passed parameters. I suppose you could partially apply a pattern function to get a new function, but that doesn't seem relevant.

It seems to me that you are going into considerations that are way too complex.
Have you ever done some Prolog? If yes, it helps to understand unification, but if not let me explain this quickly.
Unification works like this: it tries to match two terms. These terms are built like normal Coq terms but may contain holes represented by existential variables (`?x`) or underscores (`_`). We can call such terms "patterns".
When matching, `le _ _` with `le a b` and the first `_` is replaced by `a` and the second `_` is replaced by `b`. On the other hand, when trying to match `le` with `le a b` or `le` with `le _ _`, we get a unification failure: the terms do not have the same form.

`Search` will match any sub-term. For instance, the pattern `a` will match the sub-term `a` of `le a b`.
`SearchPattern` will only match sub-terms that are *a* conclusion of the term being tested. For instance, `le _ _` will match the sub-term `le a b` in `forall a b, a = b -> le a b`. I say "a conclusion" because `_ = _ -> le _ _` will also work (it will match the sub-term `a = b -> le a b` which we can consider *a* conclusion but not *the* conclusion).
`SearchHead` will also match sub-terms that are *a* head of the conclusion of the sub-term being matched. For instance, `le` and `le _` will also work because applied to sufficiently many `_` they become patterns that match the conclusion `le a b`.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: > >Perhaps patterns define functions (even for terms that don't look like functions) and this application just means substitution?

> I'm sorry but I don't understand what this means.

Then what do you mean by "applied" in "`le` and `le _` will also work because applied to sufficiently many `_` they become patterns that match the conclusion `le a b`"?

> Have you ever done some Prolog?

If I did it was a long time ago.  I'm more familiar with unification in the context of resolution theorem proving, in which a pattern element with n variables could only match a function with n arguments--without any currying.

> Unification works like this: ... we get a unification failure: the terms do not have the same form.

Yup.

> It seems to me that you are going into considerations that are way too complex.

I want to say something that's both easy to understand but very accurate, so I need to understand it rather fully.

OK, "head" doesn't mean what I thought.

The additional holes only apply to the top node of the pattern, right?  For example `SearchHead (_ + _ = (Nat.add _)).` from your earlier examples doesn't match anything, while `SearchHead (_ + _ = (Nat.add _ _)).` does.

And (le _) would not match (le a b) under SearchPattern, right?

I don't see a way to make this clear with making the meaning of "a head" and "apply (a pattern)" explicit.  Could we a phrase like (roughly) "a prefix of the root node of C"??  Otherwise another sentence or two to explain.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: > > 
> 
> Then what do you mean by "applied" in "`le` and `le _` will also work because applied to sufficiently many `_` they become patterns that match the conclusion `le a b`"?

There's only one notion of application AFAIK and it is defined in https://coq.github.io/doc/master/refman/language/gallina-specification-language.html#applications

> The additional holes only apply to the top node of the pattern, right? For example `SearchHead (_ + _ = (Nat.add _)).` from your earlier examples doesn't match anything, while `SearchHead (_ + _ = (Nat.add _ _)).` does.

Correct.

>And (le _) would not match (le a b) under SearchPattern, right?

Correct.

>I don't see a way to make this clear with making the meaning of "a head" and "apply (a pattern)" explicit. Could we a phrase like (roughly) "a prefix of the root node of C"?? 

Sure, why not? It seems to me that whatever it contains, the explanation will need to rely on examples to illustrate anyway.

But please, let's not spend too much more time on this, it's getting tiring that this whole PR is blocked on such a minor thing.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: > But please, let's not spend too much more time on this, it's getting tiring that this whole PR is blocked on such a minor thing.

I agree.  It took a lot of back and forth to get to a common understanding--which I think was necessary and valuable.  Hopefully future discussions on other topics are more efficient.

How is this?

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goal (if any) and theorems of the current context that have the
   form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term`
   matches a head of `C`.
   
   A *head* of `C` is the entire term `C` or a prefix of the top node of `C`.
   For example, a :n:`@one_term` of `(le _)` matches a `C` that is `(le (a+1) b)`.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: I think that my description using "a head" is too non-standard to include in the refman as is. Furthermore, your explanation of it is too imprecise. I don't know what "top node" means. And it does not talk about application. The example is not very natural because `le _` and `le` have the same behavior (when used with `SearchHead`) so the only natural thing is to give just `le`. Maybe `@eq bool` is a better example (cf. the examples contained in the manual).

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: Look, I don't have any great suggestions but let's still settle in with a description, even if a bit heavy. Given that there might be changes to the `Search` infrastructure in 8.12, we will anyway have to rethink the whole doc.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: > There's only one notion of application AFAIK and it is defined in ...

I improved the wording there and added a mention of currying, which is barely mentioned in the documentation and may be unfamiliar to some users:

:n:`@term__fun @term` denotes applying the function :n:`@term__fun` to :token:`term`.

:n:`@term__fun {+ @term__i }` denotes applying :n:`@term__fun` to the arguments :n:`@term__i`.
By *currying*, this is equivalent to :n:`( … ( @term__fun @term__1 ) … ) @term__n`:
associativity is to the left.  (Any function of two arguments `f a b` can be converted to
the expression `(f a) b` in which `(f a)` represents a one argument function derived from `f`
by fixing the first argument to `a`.  Applying this repeatedly can convert the application
of any multi-argument function to a series of one argument functions.)

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: > > Perhaps patterns define functions

You can apply a pattern to create a new, more complex pattern as shown below.  It's not the same as applying a function.  That's why I questioned the language "apply a pattern".  These are equivalent:

```
SearchHead (_ + _ = ((Nat.add _ _))).
SearchHead (_ + _ = ((Nat.add _) _)).  (* pattern "Nat.add _" applied to "_" *)
```

If a pattern match of this type is useful in proofs then it should be documented.  Also note that patterns in SearchHead are non-linear while those in `match` constructs are not.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: > By _currying_, this is equivalent

This is not equivalent by currying, the parentheses are implicit, but they are there if you print the term in full. I agree that this should be explained better as well, but please let's not put this too in this PR.

(Currying is the equivalence between fun x => fun y => and fun (x, y) =>)

> These are equivalent

These are not just equivalent. These are *exactly* the same. There is strictly no difference beyond writing explicitly the parentheses or not. This is standard term application. There is nothing specific to patterns here.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: > I think that my description using "a head" is too non-standard to include in the refman as is. Furthermore, your explanation of it is too imprecise. ...

How about this?  It is less precise. I define "prefix" implicitly, but the imprecision should be apparent to the reader, so at least it doesn't give a false impression of precision.  (Not 100% sure what you were referring to about @eq examples.)

```
   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goal (if any) and theorems of the current context that have the
   form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term`
   matches a prefix of `C`.  For example, a :n:`@one_term` of `(@eq _)`
   matches `@eq (and a b))`, which is a prefix of `C` when `C` is `(@eq (and a b) c)`.
```

Alternatively we could add several sentences defining various terms precisely.  I lean toward punting.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: Re: currying

OK, I'll just make it this slight wording improvement:

```
:n:`@term__fun @term` denotes applying the function :n:`@term__fun` to :token:`term`.

:n:`@term__fun {+ @term__i }` denotes applying
:n:`@term__fun` to the arguments :n:`@term__i`.  It is
equivalent to :n:`( … ( @term__fun @term__1 ) … ) @term__n`:
associativity is to the left.
```

> These are not just equivalent. These are *exactly* the same.

Well... Internally, they are the same.  From the users' perspective they are only equivalent--unless they print the term in full.

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Reviewer: This does look rather good to me, except that the example makes even less sense that the previous one. Putting the `@` in front of `eq` means that the first argument is the type of the equality. My goal was simply that the last argument in the pattern wouldn't be a `_` because it wouldn't be natural to put it there (since it wouldn't change anything).

Here's a modification of your proposal using completely abstract stuff:

```
   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goal (if any) and theorems of the current context that have the
   form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term`
   matches a prefix of `C`.  For example, a :n:`@one_term` of `f _ b`
   matches `f a b`, which is a prefix of `C` when `C` is `f a b c`.
```

>    form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.

Author: Then I'll use this wording, include the "application" wording tweak, move Search and squash.  It will take me a few minutes.

   arguments ``-set`` and ``-unset`` for setting flags and options
   (cf. :ref:`command-line-options`).

Query commands
--------------

Unlike other commands, query commands may be prefixed with
a goal selector (:n:`@num:`) to specify which goal context, it applies to.
If no selector is provided,
the command applies to the current goal.  If no proof is open, then the command only applies
to accessible objects.  (see Section :ref:`invocation-of-tactics`).

.. cmd:: About @smart_qualid {? @univ_name_list }

   Displays information about the :n:`@smart_qualid` object, which,

>    if a proof is open,  may be a hypothesis of the selected goal(s),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   if a proof is open,  may be a hypothesis of the selected goal,
```

   or an accessible theorem, axiom, etc.:
   its kind (module, constant, assumption, inductive,
   constructor, abbreviation, …), long name, type, implicit arguments and
   argument scopes. It does not print the body of definitions or proofs.

.. cmd:: Check @term

   Displays the type of :n:`@term`. When called in proof mode, the

>    term is checked in the local context of the selected goal(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   term is checked in the local context of the selected goal.
```

.. cmd:: Eval @red_expr in @term

   Performs the specified reduction on :n:`@term`, and displays
   the resulting term with its type. The term to be reduced may depend on

>    hypotheses introduced in the selected goals (if a proof is in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   hypotheses introduced in the selected goal (if a proof is in
```

   progress).

   .. seealso:: Section :ref:`performingcomputations`.

.. cmd:: Compute @term

   Evaluates :n:`@term` using the bytecode-based virtual machine.
   If a proof is open, :n:`@term` may reference hypotheses of the

>    selected goal.  It is a shortcut for :cmd:`Eval` :n:`vm_compute in

Reviewer: This sentence is clearer than the equivalent one in the description of `Eval` and should probably only be present in the first one, since this one is explained as "a shortcut".

     If the same :n:`?@ident` occurs more than once in the pattern, all occurrences must
     match the same value.

   * :n:`@string` - If :n:`@string` is a substring of a valid identifier,
     search for objects whose name contains :n:`@string`. If :n:`@string` is a notation
     string associated with a :n:`@qualid`, that's equivalent to :cmd:`Search` :n:`@qualid`.
     For example, specifying "+" or "_ + _", which are notations for "plus", are equivalent
     to :cmd:`Search` :n:`plus`.

   * :n:`% @scope` - limits the search to the scope bound to
     the delimiting key :n:`@scope`, such as, for example, :n:`%nat`.
     This clause may be used only if :n:`@string` contains a notation string.
     (see Section :ref:`LocalInterpretationRulesForNotations`)

   If you specify multiple :n:`@search_item`\s, all the conditions must be satisfied
   for the object to be displayed.  `{? - }` excludes objects that contain the :n:`@search_item`.

   Additional clauses:

   * :n:`inside {+ @qualid }` - limit the search to the specified modules
   * :n:`outside {+ @qualid }` - exclude the specified modules from the search

>    .. exn:: The reference @qualid was not found in the current environment.

Reviewer: The actual error message is the following:
```suggestion
   .. exn:: Module/section @qualid not found.
```

   This command displays the type of :n:`@term`. When called in proof mode, the
   term is checked in the local context of the current subgoal.

>    Prefix the command with :n:`@selector:` to specify which subgoal to check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Prefix the command with :n:`@selector:` to specify which subgoal to check
```

Like I said in one of my previous comments, it'd be great if the section could be consolidated to include all (and only those) commands that accept the goal selector, so that this can be documented once and for all at the top of the section.

   .. seealso:: Section :ref:`performingcomputations`.

.. cmd:: Print Assumptions @smart_qualid

   Displays all the assumptions (axioms, parameters and
   variables) a theorem or definition depends on.

   .. exn:: Closed under the global context

      The theorem or definition doesn't depend on any assumptions.

.. cmd:: Print Opaque Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays the assumptions and opaque constants that :n:`@smart_qualid` depends on.

.. cmd:: Print Transparent Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays the assumptions and  transparent constants that :n:`@smart_qualid` depends on.

.. cmd:: Print All Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays all the assumptions and constants :n:`@smart_qualid` relies on.

.. cmd:: Search {+ @search_item } {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   .. insertprodn search_item search_item

   .. prodn::
      search_item ::= {? - } @string {? % @ident }
      | {? - } @one_term

   This command displays the name and type of objects (hypothesis of

>    the current goal, theorems, axioms, etc) in the current context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This command retrieves the name and type of objects matching :n:`@search_item`\s
   in the current context (i.e. hypotheses of the selected goal, theorems, axioms, etc.).
```

   This command is useful to remind the user of the names of library lemmas.

   .. todo above: "current context" meaning on the current goal or the first goal?
      below: adapted the old wording, doesn't seem consistent

>       also will "invocation-of-tactics" cover the command case, or will there be a new section?

Reviewer: I think I've answered this question in my suggestion above + a previous comment of mine regarding the fact that *goal selectors* have the same meaning for tactics and commands.

   * :n:`@string  {? % @ident }` - If :n:`@string` is a valid identifier,
     search for objects whose name contains :n:`@string`. If :n:`@string` is a
     notation's string for some reference :n:`@qualid` (referred to by its
     main symbol as in `"+"` or by its notation’s string as in `"_ + _"` or
     `"_ 'U' _"`, see Section :ref:`notations`) the command works like :cmd:`Search` :n:`@qualid`.

     .. todo: don't understand the 2nd sentence; notation's string -> notation string?
        what if it's not a valid identifier?  error or does something different?

>         this is a substring match, e.g. "abc" matches "bc", right?

Reviewer: The terminology "valid identifier" is misleading. What is meant is valid part of an identifier (which grammatically speaking is almost the same except that keywords and `_` work too). Example: `Search "in".`

>      .. todo would be nice if :n: had syntax for embedding :cmd: et al

Reviewer: Indeed, that'd be nice.

     Specifying :n:`@ident` limits this to interpretation in the scope bound to
     the delimiting key :token:`ident` (see Section :ref:`LocalInterpretationRulesForNotations`).

>      .. todo: does delimiting key mean anything special?

Reviewer: Usual meaning from the notation documentation.

Author: Took me maybe an hour to (sort of) figure what was meant here.  I've not used scopes at all before.  Not easy to figure out from the doc without reading a lot and fairly closely.

Reviewer: Indeed, but I just meant that there is nothing special to explain here. That being said, the "Syntax extensions" chapter defines a `scope` non-terminal (that's just an `ident`). It could make sense to replace all the `% @ident` with `% @scope` so that there is a direct link to the documentation of scopes. Like we replaced a bunch of `: @term` by `: @type`.

Author: Will do.  "scope" is a bit problematic because the doc uses it many times for it seems multiple meanings, eg "interpretation scope", Ltac2 scope, I think in the description of sections and in the ordinary sense of the word.

Ex: "By default, the scope of :cmd:`Opaque` is limited to the current section or file."

Reviewer: Right, but I think this is still the most common use case. We could try to reduce the other uses.

   * :n:`@one_term` - Search for objects containing a subterm matching the pattern
     :token:`one_term` in which holes of the pattern are indicated by `_` or,
     when a non linear pattern is specified, :n:`?@ident`.

      .. todo: "all statements or types of definition" is equivalent to "objects"?
         Should non linear pattern be defined or reworded?  I had never run across it.

>          Not so keen on the term "holes", maybe reword to remove

Reviewer: I don't understand the first part of the question. Non linear patterns mean some pattern in which the same variable appears several times, example:

```
Require Import Arith.
Search (?n + _ = _ + ?n).
(* Nat.add_comm: forall n m : nat, n + m = m + n *)
```

Author: Yes, I looked it up in Wikipedia.

2nd try: Should the terminology "non linear pattern" be defined here or elsewhere or replaced with the description such as "if the same variable occurs more than once in a pattern, all occurrences must match the same value".  I'm not sure using the term is helpful:
- I had not run across the term before, but the concept is pretty obvious.  Maybe it's a term specialists know and love.
- A pattern that doesn't have this property seems rather pitiful
- The term suggests 2 alternatives.  We don't use the term "linear pattern" AFAIK.
- "non linear" is not very suggestive of the property it describes

Your thoughts?

Reviewer: I agree the term does not bring much and can be removed. All the user needs to know if that if they need a variable to be repeated in the pattern, they can use `?x` instead of `_`.

   * :n:`{? - }` - excludes objects that contain the :n:`@string` or :n:`@one_term`
   * :n:`inside {+ @qualid }` - limit the search to the specified modules
   * :n:`outside {+ @qualid }` - exclude the specified modules from the search

   Prefix the command with :n:`@selector:` to specify the goal on which to search hypothesis.
   By default the first goal is searched. (see Section :ref:`invocation-of-tactics`).

   .. exn:: The reference @qualid was not found in the current environment.

>       There is no constant in the environment named qualid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      There is no constant in the environment named :n:`@qualid`.
```

This explanation is not very enlightening however.

>    .. cmdv:: Search {+ {? -}@term_pattern_string}

Reviewer: Why did you keep this variant?

   .. seealso:: Section :ref:`performingcomputations`.

.. cmd:: Print Assumptions @smart_qualid

   Displays all the assumptions (axioms, parameters and
   variables) a theorem or definition depends on. Especially, it informs
   on the assumptions with respect to which the validity of a theorem

>    relies.

Reviewer: Indeed, this second sentence is redundant. What would be useful OTOH is to show the message printed by the command when it depends on no assumption at all ("Closed under the global context").

   .. todo I think drop the second sentence

.. cmd:: Print Opaque Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays the opaque constants :n:`@smart_qualid` relies on in addition to
   the assumptions.

>    .. todo it printe assumptions+opaque constants?

Reviewer: Looks like it.

.. cmd:: Print Transparent Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays the transparent constants :n:`@smart_qualid` relies on
   in addition to the assumptions.

   .. todo ditto

.. cmd:: Print All Dependencies @smart_qualid

   Displays all the assumptions and constants :n:`@smart_qualid` relies on.

> .. cmd:: Search @search_item {? {| {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } | {+ @search_item } } }

Reviewer: This is incorrect. Probably a mistake in `common.edit_mlg`. The `{| inside | outside }` clause is only supported *after* all the `search_item`.

This should be `Search {+ @search_item } {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }`.

            Search (?x * _ + ?x * _)%Z outside OmegaLemmas.

.. cmd:: SearchHead @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goals (if any) and theorems of the current context that have the

>    form :n:`{* P__n -> } (@one_term t__1 ... t__m)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   form :n:`{* P__i -> } (@one_term t__1 ... t__m)`.
```

In fact this can also be `forall` instead of `->` (dependent arrow). Maybe the following would be better:
```suggestion
   form :n:`{? forall {* @binder }, } {* P__i -> } (@one_term t__1 ... t__m)`.
```

Technically, the `{* P__i }` part is redundant with the `forall` part, but it makes for a clearer reading.

Author: I guess.  You can have both `forall` and the `P__i?  That falls out from the definition of `->`?  I could also add a sentence explaining how `->` is defined.

Reviewer: Indeed, `->` is a specialized `forall` rather than the opposite. This is already explained here BTW: https://coq.github.io/doc/master/refman/language/gallina-specification-language.html#products-forall

Author: Added the forall.

Is there a way to display the notation associated with a symbol, like a `Print Notation "->"?  Would be nice if it told you where it's defined.

There should be a way to look up standard notations/nonterminals in the documentation.  A text search on "->" is completely useless.

Reviewer: Yes, `Locate` works:

```coq
Locate "->".
(*
Notation
"A -> B" := forall _ : A, B : type_scope (default interpretation)
*)
```

> Would be nice if it told you where it's defined.

That could be an enhancement request. For now, it doesn't.

>    It's useful for finding the names of library lemmas.

Reviewer: Doesn't seem useful to me to repeat this:
```suggestion
```

Author: Sorry.  IIRC that sentence appeared in more than one place.  I may have removed the wrong one (and the others may not have been marked).

Reviewer: I suggest keeping it only once, in the description of `Search`.

   See :cmd:`Search` for an explanation of the syntax.

>    .. see examples at https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11961#discussion_r402904029

Reviewer: The examples that are already in the manual look good to me.

.. cmd:: SearchHead @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose
   statement’s conclusion has the form :n:`(@one_term t1 .. tn)`. It is
   useful to remind the user of the name of library lemmas.

   * :n:`@one_term` - Search for objects containing a subterm matching the pattern
     :n:`@one_term` in which holes of the pattern are indicated by `_` or,
     when a non linear pattern is specified, :n:`?@ident`.
   * :n:`inside {+ @qualid }` - limit the search to the specified modules
   * :n:`outside {+ @qualid }` - exclude the specified modules from the search

>    .. todo: what is the complete definition of context?

Author: I think I'll include a parenthetical explanation.  "context" means one thing when viewing a proof step and I think another thing here.  Hypothesis can refer to the command, items above the line in a proof step, or (I think relevant here) the antecedent in `H -> C`.  (continued here: https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11961#discussion_r402158683)

      for all objects whose statement or type contains a subterm matching
      :n:`@term_pattern` (or :n:`@qualid` if :n:`@string` is the notation for a reference
      qualid) and whose name contains all string of the request that
      correspond to valid identifiers.

      .. todo Isn't this the same as for @string?  But the wording was different than

>          the other one with @term_pattern_string

Reviewer: I think this variant was to say that you can provide several `search_item`.

         SearchHead (@eq bool).

>    .. exn:: Module/section @qualid not found.

Reviewer: This is the correct error message (the one appearing in the description of `Search` did not exist). But it should only be documented once (in the description of `Search`, more precisely in the description of the `inside` / `outside` clauses.

Author: Deleted it here.

      No module :n:`@qualid` has been required (see Section :ref:`compiled-files`).

.. cmd:: SearchPattern @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goals (if any) and theorems of the current context
   ending with :n:`{* P__n -> } C` that match the pattern

>    :n:`@one_term`.

Reviewer: The same remarks from above apply.

         SearchHead (@eq bool).

   .. exn:: Module/section @qualid not found.

      No module :n:`@qualid` has been required (see Section :ref:`compiled-files`).

.. cmd:: SearchPattern @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose
   statement’s conclusion or last hypothesis and conclusion matches the
   pattern :n:`@one_term`.
   It is a variant of :n:`Search @term_pattern` that does not look for subterms
   but searches for statements whose conclusion has exactly the expected
   form, or whose statement finishes by the given series of
   hypothesis/conclusion.

   .. todo: should this+SearchPattern+SearchHead be described as "Like Search, but ..."?
      there seems to be a lot of similarity (and thus a lot of repeated text)

   .. todo: and very hard to get this (and the difference between the 4 Search*)

>       without concrete examples.  Too many abstractions strung together.

Reviewer: I can try to help but I would need more concrete questions.

Author: (continued from 2 comments above)

for SearchHead, "all hypotheses of the current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose statement’s conclusion": "hypotheses" means items above the line in the proof step or H1 and H2 in the goal `H1 -> H2 -> C`? And "conclusion" meaning C in the goal, not everything below the line in the proof step)?  This would commonly be used to find a hypothesis or theorem that can be `apply`ed?  A brief disambiguating example would be great.

for SearchPattern, "all hypotheses of the current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose statement’s conclusion or last hypothesis and conclusion": can you disambiguate hypothesis and conclusion?  Last hypothesis means H2 for the goal `H1 -> H2 -> C`?

also for SearchPattern, "does not look for subterms but searches for statements whose conclusion has exactly the expected form, or whose statement finishes by the given series of hypothesis/conclusion", what do "hypothesis" and "series of hypothesis/conclusion" mean?  maybe give an example?  When would this be used?

for SeachRewrite, can you give an example for "all hypotheses of the current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose statement’s conclusion is an equality of which one side matches the expression :n:`@one_term`"?  You use this find opportunities to `apply` something or perhaps to `rewrite` it?

Hopefully a couple of examples will also make it easy to contrast the 4 Search commands.

(And in case it's not clear, I don't mean full `.. example::`s unless that's necessary.)

Reviewer: I agree this is confusing, I try to use the word "premise" instead of "hypothesis" to designate the `P` in `P -> C` when teaching in order to alleviate the confusion (and conclusion usually means the `C` in `P -> C`). Especially in sentences like "you can apply a hypothesis if its conclusion matches your goal, then Coq will replace your goal with new sub-goals corresponding to the premises of your hypothesis".

"Context" designates everything that is available including previously-defined constants (what is called "the global context"), variables and hypotheses defined in the open sections (let's call it "the section context") and variables and hypotheses local to the current goal ("the goal context").

> for SearchHead, "all hypotheses of the current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose statement’s conclusion": "hypotheses" means items above the line in the proof step or H1 and H2 in the goal `H1 -> H2 -> C`? And "conclusion" meaning C in the goal, not everything below the line in the proof step)?

The terminology is the one I explained above. Yes, "hypotheses" means everything above the line, and conclusion is used here to designate the conclusion of those hypotheses and theorems (not the conclusion of the goal / `Search` is independent of the goal itself, it depends only on the goal context).

> for SearchPattern, "all hypotheses of the current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose statement’s conclusion or last hypothesis and conclusion": can you disambiguate hypothesis and conclusion? Last hypothesis means H2 for the goal `H1 -> H2 -> C`?

The "last hypothesis" should be renamed in "last premise" to use the terminology I explained above. Again, this is talking about the last premise and the conclusion of the hypotheses and theorems, not of the goal.

> also for SearchPattern, "does not look for subterms but searches for statements whose conclusion has exactly the expected form, or whose statement finishes by the given series of hypothesis/conclusion", what do "hypothesis" and "series of hypothesis/conclusion" mean?

Here again, "premises" should be used instead of "hypothesis". What is meant here is that `SearchPattern` considers the conclusion of the hypotheses / theorems + their last n premises, n can be zero, and depends on the pattern you give to `SearchPattern` (how many arrows in your pattern).

Now for the clarifying examples:

```coq
Theorem theorem : forall x x' y y', x = x' -> y = y' -> x + y = x' + y'.
Admitted.

Lemma foo (hypothesis : forall x y : nat, x + 0 = y + 0 -> x = y) : True.

Search (_ + _ = _ + _). (* finds both hypothesis and theorem *)
SearchHead (_ + _ = _ + _). (* finds theorem---but not hypothesis *)
SearchPattern (_ + _ = _ + _). (* same *)
SearchRewrite (_ + _ = _ + _). (* does not make sense to include the `=` in a `SearchRewrite`: finds nothing *)

Search (_ + _). (* finds both hypothesis and theorem *)
SearchHead (_ + _). (* finds nothing *)
SearchPattern (_ + _). (* same *)
SearchRewrite (_ + _). (* finds theorem---but not hypothesis *)

Search (eq (_ + _)). (* finds both hypothesis and theorem *)
SearchHead (eq (_ + _)). (* finds theorem--but not hypothesis *)
SearchPattern (eq (_ + _)). (* finds nothing *)
SearchPattern (eq (_ + _) _). (* finds theorem, like `SearchHead` without the `_` *)

Search (_ = _ -> _ + _ = _ + _). (* finds theorem *)
SearchHead (_ = _ -> _ + _ = _ + _). (* finds theorem *)
SearchPattern (_ = _ -> _ + _ = _ + _). (* same *)
```

Otherwise said:
- `Search` looks for a pattern as deep as necessary in the hypotheses / theorems;
- `SearchPattern` restricts the search to patterns that match exactly the conclusion or exactly the conclusion + n premises of the hypotheses / theorems;
- `SearchHead` restricts the search similarly to `SearchPattern` but in addition, it accepts patterns that need to be applied to a bunch of `_` to match the goal.
- `SearchRewrite` looks for hypotheses / theorems whose conclusion is an `=` and whose left or right-side of the equality matches the pattern.

Author: And only terms in the form P1 -> ... -> Pn -> C have conclusions!

Reviewer: If you don't have an arrow, then the whole term is the conclusion.

Author: It was too elegant.  I'll just say Pn for n >= 0.  :-)

"theorems of the current context" - does "current context" mean anything specific and important here?  How about "accessible theorems"?  Or just "theorems"?

Author: For `-> (one_term t1 ... tm)`, are the t1 .. tm directly related to the matched elements of the pattern?

Author: I got a bit creative, though brief.  Let me know if it works for you.

Is it also possible to say anything helpful about when the user would use each of these (e.g. they want to use `apply` or `rewrite`)?

Reviewer: > Is it also possible to say anything helpful about when the user would use each of these (e.g. they want to use `apply` or `rewrite`)?

`SearchRewrite` is clearly for when you are looking for a lemma to `rewrite` with, but sometimes you may also want to use `Search` for this. For instance `Search (?n + ?m = ?m + ?n)` will find the commutativity of `+` lemma but `SearchRewrite` wouldn't allow me to get as specific because it only matches one side of the equality, not both at once.

With respect to `Search` vs `SearchHead` and `SearchPattern`, usually the user will use `Search` first but use one of the other two if `Search` gave too many results, and they want to filter through them.

Author: Thanks.  Won't put this in the doc since it's pretty general.

Author: Also, shouldn't

```
Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
selected goal (if any) and theorems of the current context that have the
form :n:`{* P__i -> } (@one_term t__1 ... t__m)`.
```

be more like

```
Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
selected goal (if any) and theorems of the current context that have the
form :n:`{* P__i -> } C` where :n:`@one_term` matches `C`.
```

Reviewer: Yes, the latter is probably better.

            Search (?x * _ + ?x * _)%Z outside OmegaLemmas.

.. cmd:: SearchHead @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   This command displays the name and type of all hypothesis of the
   current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose

>    statement’s conclusion has the form `(term t1 .. tn)`. This command is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   statement’s conclusion has the form :n:`(@one_term t1 .. tn)`. This command is
```

      .. coqtop:: all

         SearchPattern (_ + _ = _ + _).
         SearchPattern (nat -> bool).
         SearchPattern (forall l : list _, _ l l).

      .. coqtop:: all

         SearchPattern (?X1 + _ = _ + ?X1).

.. cmd:: SearchRewrite @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose
   conclusion is an equality for which one side matches the
   expression :n:`@one_term`.

   For a statement in the form :n:`{* P__i -> } C`, the :n:`P__n` are the *premises*

>    and :n:`C` is the *conclusion*.

Reviewer: Until we can have these links to the definitions of standard notions that we talked about, I feel like this sentence is really to odd to be kept in the description of `SearchRewrite`.

         SearchPattern (forall l : list _, _ l l).

>    .. example::

Reviewer: Could get a name or else be merged with the previous example box.

      .. coqtop:: all

         SearchPattern (?X1 + _ = _ + ?X1).

.. cmd:: SearchRewrite @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   Displays the name and type of all hypotheses of the
   selected goals (if any) and theorems of the current context whose
   conclusion is an equality for which one side matches the
   expression :n:`@one_term`.

   For a statement in the form :n:`{* P__n -> } C`, the :n:`P__n` are the *premises*

>    and :n:`C` is the *conclusion*.

Reviewer: This explanation is useful but kind of odd in this place. It would be useful to be able to refer to words that are well-defined (once in the manual). For instance, in the paragraph above "conclusion" would be clickable and would refer directly to the place containing this explanation.

Author: I agree 100%.  This should be moved to another section in another chapter later on.

      No module :n:`@qualid` has been required (see Section :ref:`compiled-files`).

> .. cmd:: SearchPattern @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

Reviewer: Description paragraph needs to be fixed.

      No module :n:`@qualid` has been required (see Section :ref:`compiled-files`).

>    .. note:: Up to |Coq| version 8.4, ``SearchHead`` was named ``Search``.

Reviewer: It's probably about time to remove this comment:

```suggestion
```

         SearchRewrite (_ + _ + _).

> .. note::

Reviewer: It doesn't really make sense that this `table` must be presented in a note.

Author: Got it.

BTW, if you can select multiple lines it's a bit easier for me to find what you're referring to. `.. note::` isn't a great search term and the line numbers get thrown off as I make changes going from top to bottom (was 357 for me vs 371 shown above).

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/78463405-0a197f00-7691-11ea-83ef-02d69c7236fa.png)

      search results.  The default blacklisted substrings are ``_subterm``, ``_subproof`` and
      ``Private_``.

      Use the :cmd:`Add` and :cmd:`Remove` commands to update the set of
      blacklisted strings.

.. cmd:: Locate @smart_qualid

   Displays the full name of objects that end with :n:`@smart_qualid`,
   thereby showing the module they are defined in.
   :cmd:`Locate` searches for objects from |Coq|'s various
   qualified namespaces such as terms, modules and Ltac.

   .. todo somewhere we should list all the qualified namespaces

.. cmd:: Locate Term @smart_qualid

   Like :cmd:`Locate`, but limits the search to terms

.. cmd:: Locate Module @qualid

   Like :cmd:`Locate`, but limits the search to modules

.. cmd:: Locate Ltac @qualid

>    Like :cmd:`Locate`, but limits the search to tactics

Author: I tried this before I wrote this.  `Locate intros.` works just fine.  So not limited to Ltac tactics.

>    Like :cmd:`Locate`, but limits the search to tactics

Reviewer: Me too! That's weird. `Locate intros` and `Locate intro` work just fine like you said (even though they are not defined in the `theories/Init/Notations.v` file) but `Locate rewrite` and `Locate apply` do not work. Maybe the inconsistency is worth reporting.

>    Like :cmd:`Locate`, but limits the search to tactics

Author: #12030

      This restricts the search to constructions not defined in the modules
      named by the given :n:`qualid` sequence.

.. cmd:: SearchRewrite @one_term {? {| inside | outside } {+ @qualid } }

   This command displays the name and type of all hypothesis of the
   current goal (if any) and theorems of the current context whose
   statement’s conclusion is an equality of which one side matches the

>    expression term. Holes in term are denoted by “_”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   expression :n:`@one_term`. Holes in term are denoted by “_”.
```

   .. prodn::
      locatable ::= @smart_qualid
      | Term @smart_qualid
      | Module @qualid
      | Ltac @qualid
      | Library @qualid
      | File @string

   Displays the full name of objects whose name is a prefix
   of the specified value, and consequently the |Coq| module in
   which they are defined. It searches for objects from the different
   qualified namespaces of |Coq|: terms, modules, Ltac, etc.

   The alternatives have the following behavior:

   -  :n:`Locate @smart_qualid` - displays the full name of objects whose name is a prefix
      of :n:`@smart_qualid`, thereby showing the module they are defined in.
   -  :n:`Locate Term @smart_qualid` - limits the search to terms
   -  :n:`Locate Module @qualid` - limits the search to modules
   -  :n:`Locate Ltac @qualid` - reports whether the specified module has been loaded
   -  :n:`Locate Library @qualid` - gives the status of the specified |Coq| module. It reports whether
      the module is loaded and, if not, searches for the module in the load path and reports
      where it is found.
   -  :n:`Locate File @string` - displays the location of a file specified by :n:`@string`

>       Typically, :n:`@string` is a ``.cmo`` or ``.vo`` or ``.v`` file, such as :n:`Nat.v`.

Reviewer: Same comment than for `Search`. I appreciate the top-level description of what is `locatable`, but then, I would like to see descriptions organized using `cmdv`.

Note that I think we should do the same with `Print`: document all the `printable` in a single command (i.e. consolidating all the `Print` commands that are currently spread out in the manual, putting a link to the right variant where they currently appear) and present each with a separate `cmdv`.

Author: I thought an alternative for Locate would to make them all cmds.  It's not clear how much relation there is between them, nor is `locatable` really interesting.  `Locate File`, for example, is clearly different from the others, so why even call it a variant?

> I think we should do the same with `Print`: document all the `printable` in a single command (i.e. consolidating all the `Print` commands that are currently spread out in the manual, putting a link to the right variant where they currently appear) and present each with a separate `cmdv`.

One could create a `Print commands` section that lists and links to all the alternatives that may be elsewhere in the document, perhaps with a couple words describing each.  Consider `Print Foo`: should it be described in one place with all other `Print` variations, or should it be described in the section on `Foo`?

Unless we create some rules about what's in a variant, doc_grammar likely won't be able to verify update them automatically or flag them as needing attention.  That seems like giving up a lot.

Reviewer: OK, I am fine with your alternative proposal of gathering all the `Print` / all the `Locate` into a section, but still making them separate `cmd`. I think I prefer to gather them rather than spreading them out (next to the explanation on the associated concept) because it's good to have a reference of all the available queries somewhere and this does not prevent from linking to them from the explanation on the associated concept.

Author: All 45 Prints in one section, pulling them out of various chapters?

FYI:
doc.sphinx.addendum
extraction.rst
.. cmd:: Print Extraction Inline
.. cmd:: Print Extraction Blacklist
generalized-rewriting.rst
.. cmd:: Print Instances
implicit-coercions.rst
.. cmd:: Print Classes
.. cmd:: Print Coercions
.. cmd:: Print Graph
.. cmd:: Print Coercion Paths @class @class
doc.sphinx.language
gallina-extensions.rst
.. cmd:: Print Module @qualid
.. cmd:: Print Module Type @qualid
.. cmd:: Print Implicit @smart_qualid
.. cmd:: Print Canonical Projections {* @smart_qualid }
.. cmd:: Print {? Sorted } Universes {? Subgraph ( {* @qualid } ) } {? @string }
doc.sphinx.proof-engine
ltac.rst
.. cmd:: Print Ltac @qualid
.. cmd:: Print Ltac Signatures
tactics.rst
.. cmd:: Print Hint @ident
.. cmd:: Print Hint
.. cmd:: Print Hint @ident
.. cmd:: Print Hint *
.. cmd:: Print HintDb @ident
.. cmd:: Print Rewrite HintDb @ident
   .. cmd:: Print Firstorder Solver
vernacular-commands.rst
.. cmd:: Print {? Term } @smart_qualid {? @univ_name_list }
.. cmd:: Print All
.. cmd:: Print Section @qualid
.. cmd:: Print Options
.. cmd:: Print Table @setting_name
.. cmd:: Print Tables
.. cmd:: Print Assumptions @smart_qualid
.. cmd:: Print Opaque Dependencies @smart_qualid
.. cmd:: Print Transparent Dependencies @smart_qualid
.. cmd:: Print All Dependencies @smart_qualid
.. cmd:: Print Libraries
.. cmd:: Print ML Modules
.. cmd:: Print LoadPath {? @dirpath }
.. cmd:: Print ML Path
.. cmd:: Print Strategy @smart_qualid
.. cmd:: Print Strategies
.. cmd:: Print Typing Flags
doc.sphinx.user-extensions
syntax-extensions.rst
.. cmd:: Print Grammar constr.
.. cmd:: Print Grammar pattern.
.. cmd:: Print Custom Grammar @ident.
.. cmd:: Print Visibility
   .. cmdv:: Print Visibility @scope
.. cmd:: Print Scopes
   .. cmdv:: Print Scope @scope
   .. cmd:: Print Grammar tactic

Author: > I think I prefer to gather them rather than spreading them out (next to the explanation on the associated concept) because it's good to have a reference of all the available queries somewhere and this does not prevent from linking to them from the explanation on the associated concept.

This rationale seems a bit weak: all the Prints are already gathered together in the index and hyperlinked to where they're referenced, though there is no terse summary of what each one does.  Does that affect your preference?

Reviewer: OK, you are right, that's too much. It's just that it would have made sense to separate the description of what is really the Coq language from all the commands that are just there to request information about the current state. But that can wait.

This section describes the commands used to load compiled files (see
Chapter :ref:`thecoqcommands` for documentation on how to compile a file). A compiled
file is a particular case of a module called a *library file*.

.. cmd:: Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @qualid }
   :name: Require; Require Import; Require Export

   Loads compiled modules into the |Coq| environment.  For each :n:`@qualid`, which has the form
   :n:`{* @ident__module . } @ident`, the command searches for the logical name represented

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Author: Got it.  To be precise, in the fully-qualified module name `Coq.Init.Nat`, `Coq` is not the name of a filesystem directory.  There is a tight relationship between filesystem directories and module names but they are not the same thing.  Maybe once the loadpath section is redone we'll have a precise defined term that we can use here.

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Reviewer: Right. Then "module prefix" or just "prefix" is the best we can do.

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Reviewer: That being said, even if it is not a directory name initially, `Coq` is matched to a directory. And the rest of Coq packages, when they are installed, go to a directory named according to this prefix, within the `user-contrib` directory.

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Author: I made it "prefix".  But the `Print LoadPath` output is puzzling.
- Shouldn't the 3 lines with `<>` give the first component of the fully-qualified name?
- The reverse-alpha ordering is strange.
- `Locate Library VST.veric` fails (not loaded, but IIUC should still report on this)
- `Locate Library firstorder` fails even though it's in the list
- Would be nice for `Locate Library Init` to say it's a directory or list the libraries and directories therein. (enhancement)
- `Locate firstorder` reports "Ltac Coq.Init.Prelude.firstorder"
- Would be nice to indicate what's loaded

```
<> C:\Coq8.10.1\lib\coq\user-contrib
VST.veric C:\Coq8.10.1\lib\coq\user-contrib\VST\veric
VST.sepcomp C:\Coq8.10.1\lib\coq\user-contrib\VST\sepcomp
VST.progs C:\Coq8.10.1\lib\coq\user-contrib\VST\progs
  : 
Coq C:\Coq8.10.1\lib\coq\plugins
Coq.firstorder C:\Coq8.10.1\lib\coq\plugins\firstorder

Locate firstorder.

```

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Reviewer: The lines with `<>` should mean that the first component of the fully-qualified name will be the name of a sub-directory of this directory. But I agree that the output is puzzling and that I get things that I shouldn't see in there.

`Locate firstorder` locates the tactic of that name, i.e. it is equivalent to `Locate Ltac firstorder`.

As for `Locate Library` it only locates Coq modules, not prefixes. And there is no module of name `firstorder`. But `Locate Library omega.Omega.` or `Locate Library Omega.` do work.

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Author: > there is no module of name `firstorder`.

But this sure looks like a module name:

`Coq.firstorder C:\Coq8.10.1\lib\coq\plugins\firstorder`

Outside of this PR, I'd like to make the output of `Print Loadpath` more understandable.  And perhaps at the same time give further consideration to the statement "If several files match, one of them is picked in an unspecified fashion."

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Reviewer: This is a module prefix (or "dirpath"). Everything in the output of `Print LoadPath` is a module prefix rather than a module.

> Outside of this PR, I'd like to make the output of `Print Loadpath` more understandable. And perhaps at the same time give further consideration to the statement "If several files match, one of them is picked in an unspecified fashion."

This is not a commonly used command, but still useful for debugging I guess, so sure. We can discuss this in more details in a separate issue.

>    by the :n:`ident__module`\s and loads the compiled file :n:`@ident.vo` from the associated

Author: See #12061.

     in the module available by their short names *and* marking them to be exported by the current
     module

   If the required module has already been loaded, :n:`Import` and :n:`Export` make the command
   equivalent to :cmd:`Import` or :cmd:`Export`.

   The loadpath must contain the same mapping used to compile the file
   (see Section :ref:`libraries-and-filesystem`). If
   several files match, one of them is picked in an unspecified fashion.
   Therefore, library authors should use a unique name for each module and
   users are encouraged to use fully-qualified names
   or the :cmd:`From ... Require` command to load files.

   .. todo common user error on dirpaths see https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11961#discussion_r402852390

.. cmd:: From @dirpath Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @qualid }
   :name: From ... Require

   Works like :cmd:`Require`, but loads, for each :n:`@qualid`,
   the library whose fully-qualified name matches :n:`@dirpath.{* @ident . }@qualid`
   for some :n:`{* @ident . }`. This is useful to ensure that the :n:`@qualid` library
   comes from a particular package.

>    .. exn:: Cannot load @qualid: no physical path bound to @dirpath.

Author: Ah, you want to change it in this PR?  If so, I'd temporarily use a different directive name such as `:cmdv2:` so I can still easily locate the old and new ones.  We could indent the `From` command here.

>    .. exn:: Cannot load @qualid: no physical path bound to @dirpath.

Reviewer: If it makes things simpler, we can keep the change of `cmdv` into `cmd` in this PR, but with the initial indentation of the `From` variant.

This section describes the commands used to load compiled files (see
Chapter :ref:`thecoqcommands` for documentation on how to compile a file). A compiled
file is a particular case of a module called a *library file*.

.. cmd:: Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @dirpath }

   Loads compiled modules into the |Coq| environment.  The command

>    searches the loadpath for the modules named by the :n:`@dirpath`\s.  Each :n:`@dirpath`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   searches the loadpath for the modules designated by the :n:`@dirpath`\s.  Each :n:`@dirpath`
```

   has the form :n:`{* @ident .}@ident`.  The command maps the prefix :n:`{* @ident .}` to a physical
   directory (see Section :ref:`libraries-and-filesystem`) and using the final :n:`@ident`,
   loads the compiled
   file :n:`@ident.vo` from that directory.  (Compiling :n:`@ident.v` generates :n:`@ident.vo`.)

>    The process is applied recursively to all the loaded modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The process is applied recursively to all the loaded files (if they contain :cmd:`Require` commands, those are executed as well).
```

   The compiled files must have been compiled with the same version of |Coq|.
   The compiled files are neither replayed nor rechecked.

   * :n:`Import` - additionally does an :cmd:`Import` on the loaded module, making components defined
     in the module available by their short names
   * :n:`Export` - additionally does an :cmd:`Export` on the loaded module, making components defined
     in the module available by their short names *and* marking them to be exported by the current
     module

   If the required module has already been loaded, :n:`Import` and :n:`Export` make the command
   equivalent to :cmd:`Import` or :cmd:`Export`.

   The mapping between
   physical directories and logical names at the time of requiring the
   file must be consistent with the mapping used to compile the file. If

>    several files match, one of them is picked in an unspecified fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   several files match, one of them is picked in an unspecified fashion.  Thus, library
   authors should not create several modules with the same name, and users are
   encouraged to fully qualify the module they load, or use the :cmd:`From ... Require ...`
   variant presented below.
```

   .. todo common user error on dirpaths see https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11961#discussion_r402852390

> .. cmd:: From @qualid Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @qualid }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. cmd:: From @dirpath Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @dirpath }
```

Contrary to what the previous version said, both are dirpath, not just the first one.

>    :name: From ... Require ...

Reviewer: I think `...` should be used to denote holes only in the middle of an unfinished command.

```suggestion
   :name: From ... Require
```

   .. todo: wanted to change @qualid to @dirpath
      but even without that, I don't get the description with ":n:`@dirpath.@dirpath’.@qualid`"

   Works like :cmd:`Require`, but picks
   any library whose absolute name is of the form :n:`@dirpath.@dirpath’.@qualid`
   for some :n:`@dirpath’`. This is useful to ensure that the :token:`qualid` library

>    comes from a given package by making explicit its absolute root.

Reviewer: From instance, `From Ltac2 Require List` is equivalent to `Require Ltac2.List` while `From Coq Require List` is equivalent to `Require Coq.Lists.List`.

Author: "any library whose absolute name is":
- "any library" - it only loads one library for each `{+ @dirpath }`, right?
- is "absolute" correct?  How about "fully qualified name"?
- as with Require, you're in trouble if it's still not unique

Reviewer: >"any library" - it only loads one library for each `{+ @dirpath }`, right?

Yes.

>is "absolute" correct? How about "fully qualified name"?

Maybe replace "absolute" with "complete". "Fully qualified" would also work but could bring confusion with qualified identifiers.

>as with Require, you're in trouble if it's still not unique

Yes, but it seriously reduces the chances of collision. Collisions could only occur if:
- the author of the library / current project (if we are requiring from the current project) has named several modules the same (strongly discouraged, and it would be great if we could even raise an error when that's the case---maybe worth an issue about this).
- several libraries have the same base name (this is the job of the package index maintainers to ensure that this is not the case, see also coq/opam-coq-archive#1208).

(and default) extension of |Coq|’s script files is .v.

.. cmd:: Load {? Verbose } {| @string | @ident }

   Loads a file.  If :n:`@ident` is specified, the command loads a file
   named :n:`ident`.v, searching successively in
   each of the directories specified in the *loadpath*. (see Section
   :ref:`libraries-and-filesystem`)

   If :n:`@string` is specified, it must specify a complete filename.
   `~` and .. abbreviations are
   allowed as well as shell variables. If no extension is specified, |Coq|
   will use the default extension ``.v``.

   Files loaded this way can't leave proofs open, nor can :cmd:`Load`
   be used inside a proof.

   We discourage the use of :cmd:`Load`; use :cmd:`Require` instead.
   :cmd:`Require` loads `.vo` files that were previously
   compiled from `.v` files.

   :n:`Verbose` displays the |Coq| output for each command and tactic
   in the loaded file, as if the commands and tactics were entered interactively.

>    .. seealso:: Section :ref:`controlling-display`.

Reviewer: I'm not convinced that this reference is useful:

```suggestion
```

(and default) extension of |Coq|’s script files is .v.

.. cmd:: Load {? Verbose } {| @string | @ident }

   Loads a file.  If :n:`@ident` is specified, the command loads a file
   named :n:`ident`.v, searching successively in
   each of the directories specified in the *loadpath*. (see Section
   :ref:`libraries-and-filesystem`)

   If :n:`@string` is specified, it must specify a complete filename.
   `~` and .. abbreviations are
   allowed as well as shell variables. If no extension is specified, |Coq|
   will use the default extension ``.v``.

   Files loaded this way can't leave proofs open, nor can :cmd:`Load`
   be used inside a proof.

>    .. todo add comparison to Require

Reviewer: This command loads *non-compiled* files. Its use is discouraged.

      |Coq| compiled module, or it was compiled with an incompatible
      version of |Coq|.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Author: Got it.  If we later automatically match rst messages to the code, we'll have to strip out the subscripts, and if the code indicates it takes a `dirpath` that would appear as a false positive mismatch.  I'd rather not invent a `.edit_mlg` equivalent for messages.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Reviewer: I'm afraid that even if we later automatically list the error messages, we will never go as far as knowing automatically which nonterminal to use, anyway.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Author: How's this?

      The library :n:`@qualid__2` is indirectly required by a :cmd:`Require` or
      :cmd:`From ... Require` command.  The loadpath maps :n:`@qualid__2` to :n:`@ident.vo`,
      which was compiled using a loadpath that bound it to :n:`@qualid__1`.  Usually
      the appropriate solution is to recompile :n:`@ident.v` using the correct loadpath.
      See :ref:`libraries-and-filesystem`.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Author: > I'm afraid that even if we later automatically list the error messages, we will never go as far as knowing automatically which nonterminal to use, anyway.

The source code may be able to include that information.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Reviewer: >How's this?

LGTM. BTW this error message is related to your leftover TODO:
```
    .. todo common user error on dirpaths see https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11961#discussion_r402852390 
```

>The source code may be able to include that information.

It depends on how much we rework the error message system. In the case of the warning system, which is already in a pretty good shape to get a list of warnings (cf. #11901), it doesn't incude this information.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Author: We'll what we can.

We should keep a list of potential Coq improvements that we identify as we go through the manual.  What's the best way to do that?  We could submit each idea as an issue, but how should we group them together and track them?  Create an issue that lists all the others?

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Reviewer: >  We could submit each idea as an issue, but how should we group them together and track them? Create an issue that lists all the others?

Yes, open separate issues, list them all in a "GitHub Project" (cf. the ["User documentation" project](https://github.com/coq/coq/projects/3) or the ["Fix non-deterministic tests" project](https://github.com/coq/coq/projects/9). A "meta-issue" may be used to explain the goal of the project, but is not required.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Author: You're thinking a new project, not just a new column under Documentation?

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Reviewer: Well sure, since this is about fixing Coq and not documenting stuff.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Author: I created https://github.com/users/jfehrle/projects/1?add_cards_query=is%3Aopen.
When I search for "12059" or "worth keeping" (partial bug title) I don't see anything.
Do I need to associate this with Coq and not jfehrle?  Are you able to see it?

I picked the "Basic Kanban" template for the moment.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Reviewer: Indeed, if you create a project in your own user namespace, you can only add issues from your own repositories. You should rather create this project in the Coq repository.

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Author: The interface/GitHub doc for creating a project is confusing:
- There are 3 separate descriptions (12 and 14 steps each) for creating a user-owned, organization-wide and repository project boards.  I'd expect a unified description; easy to pick the wrong one.
- If I follow the first 3 steps in the instructions here https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/creating-a-project-board#creating-an-organization-wide-project-board, I only see 2 projects (Release process automation and Stdlib 2.0) associated with `coq`.  (Maybe they should be repository project boards.)
- The projects you mention are in `coq / coq`.  I had to click on `Projects`, then `New Project` to create my project in the right place

>    .. exn:: The file @ident.vo contains library @dirpath and not library @dirpath.

Reviewer: Yes, I was talking about repository-specific projects. The organization-wide projects are only used whenever we need to gather issues from multiple repositories.

file is a particular case of module called *library file*.

.. cmd:: Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @qualid }

   Loads compiled modules into the |Coq| environment.  The command
   searches the loadpath for the modules named by the :n:`@qualid`\s.  Each :n:`@qualid`

>    has the form :n:`@dirpath.@ident`.  The commmand maps :n:`@dirpath` to a physical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   has the form :n:`{? @dirpath }.@ident`.  The commmand maps :n:`@dirpath` to a physical
```

   directory (see Section :ref:`libraries-and-filesystem`) and loads the compiled
   file :n:`@ident.vo` from that directory.  (Compiling :n:`@ident.v` generates :n:`@ident.vo`.)

   The process is applied recursively to all the loaded modules.
   The compiled files must have been compiled with the same version of |Coq|.
   The compiled files are neither replayed nor rechecked.

   * :n:`Import` - TBA
   * :n:`Export` - TBA

>    .. todo: I can't make sense of the old explanations for Import and Export

Reviewer: It's rather simple but the explanation is convoluted. Library files are modules. Requiring a library file makes the module available. Using `Require Import` is pretty much the same as a `Require` followed by an `Import` on the module name: it makes the objects contained in the module available by their short name. `Export` does the same thing as `Import` but *in addition* it makes the objects that were loaded available to any module that `Import` the current module. Cf. https://coq.github.io/doc/master/refman/language/gallina-extensions.html#coq:cmd.import and https://coq.github.io/doc/master/refman/language/gallina-extensions.html#coq:cmd.export.

Author: And I gather that Import and Export are not recursive the was Require is?  (and if not, maybe clarify that in Import/Export)

Author: I think I got it.

Reviewer: Indeed, `Require` is recursive. As for `Export`, we can say it is "transitive" i.e. if you have a chain of `Require Export`, then you get all the objects at the end, because each time, they have been imported and re-exported.

Author: Got it, without mentioning "transitive".

   The mapping between
   physical directories and logical names at the time of requiring the
   file must be consistent with the mapping used to compile the file. If
   several files match, one of them is picked in an unspecified fashion.

>    .. todo both sentences still true?  Second sentence is unsettling

Reviewer: Yes. Usually when something is documented as "unspecified", it is a way of warning the users not to rely on it. That being said there are many other things in Coq that are unspecified and that users rely on.

Author: I would have expected the mapping would be deterministic, like searching for a file in a list of paths like searching for an executable as in Linux or Windows.  And the consistency requirement sounds more like a bug than a feature.

"consistent" deserves some explanation--you and I may install Coq in different directories but the .vos in the distribution are still consistent.

I could just leave a todo on the definition of "consistency" here.

Reviewer: Unspecified isn't the same as non-deterministic. It could be the case that it is filesystem-dependent for instance.

Regarding the definition of consistent, this is a standard error that users do encounter and would deserve being properly documented (with `.. exn::`). Here's an example:
```
echo "Definition foo := 0." > foo.v
coqc -R . my_project foo.v
echo "Require Import foo." > bar.v
coqc bar.v
(*
Error: The file /tmp/foo.vo contains library my_project.foo and not library foo
*)
```

Usually, this error occurs not with `coqc` (there is no reason why the user would use `-R` on the first invocation but not on the second one) but with `coqide` (doing `coqide bar.v` and trying to step through it). The typical case where this occurs is the following:

```
cat > Make <<< '-R . my_project
foo.v
bar.v'
coq_makefile -f Make -o Makefile
make
coqide bar.v
```

A learner downloads a project with a Makefile generated from a `Make` file containing the `-R` option. When they try to step through the file with an IDE, they encounter the error mentioned above. The trick is either to run `coqide -R . my_project bar.v` or to rename `Make` into `_CoqProject` because then the IDE will read the first line of `_CoqProject` to know the option to use.

If you have time to translate this explanation into a clear description of the error message (ideally with an example) in the manual, that would be really useful!

Author: Ah, what is the definition of "consistent"?  A bit hard to really understand the error you describe without knowing what's correct.

The command line options for CoqIDE are not documented.  I didn't know you could do `coqide bar.v`.  However, when I try `coqide --help` (8.10.1 in Windows), the GUI doesn't come up and there's no message on stdout.

The default `Top` is not documented, nor are command line options for coq_makefile, not even mentioning that `coq_makefile --help` lists the parameters.  This line in the --help output seems out of date:  `[file.ml[i4]?]: Objective Caml file to be compiled`

I don't see any clear definition of `loadpath`.  Some of the text in gallina-extensions touches on it but doesn't define it.

BTW, I notice that `:-Q *directory* *dirpath*:` in `coq-commands.rst` drops the space between the 2 items:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/78420517-ad708280-7604-11ea-8f30-a3cd2f7524d5.png)

Seems like we should take this up a bit later.  I will leave a todo linking to your comment.

> Unspecified isn't the same as non-deterministic. It could be the case that it is filesystem-dependent for instance.

This still sounds completely bogus.   Perhaps we should discuss outside this PR, but...

From the doc "If several files with identical base name are present in different subdirectories of a recursive loadpath, which of these files is found first may be system- dependent and explicit qualification is recommended."  Either a) there should be an error message when you try to import the ambiguous item or b) the order of items in the loadpath should control which one is picked when it's ambiguous.

I don't see any reason why this should be filesystem-dependent.  AFAIK Coq is not relying on the filesystem to interpret the loadpath.  If someone adds an additional item to the loadpath (e.g. for a new external library), it seems like this would cause a bunch of immediate problems.

Reviewer: > Ah, what is the definition of "consistent"? A bit hard to really understand the error you describe without knowing what's correct.

They must use the same `-R` of `-Q` prefix.

> The command line options for CoqIDE are not documented.

That's too bad (and worth an issue)! Most of the `coqtop` / `coqc` options are accepted in fact.

> The default `Top` is not documented, nor are command line options for coq_makefile, not even mentioning that `coq_makefile --help` lists the parameters. This line in the --help output seems out of date: `[file.ml[i4]?]: Objective Caml file to be compiled`

Worth another issue! But the most important ones are documented. In fact the only command-line option that a user should give to `coq_makefile` are `-f` (usually `-f _CoqProject`) and `-o` (usually `-o Makefile` or `-o Makefile.coq` if there is a small wrapper `Makefile`). The other options should be passed as the first line of `_CoqProject` (and those that are accepted are documented). I think these are the same that are accepted directly on the command-line, but this is not recommended.

>This still sounds completely bogus.

That's the way it is and do not count on me to fix this. As long as it is like that, it is important to document it to warn users. Users should always prefer the `From ... Require` form that can guarantee from which library they are loading a module. And library authors should ensure that no two modules of their library are named the same. With these two good practices, you are safe from this problem.

Author: The error "The file /tmp/foo.vo contains library my_project.foo and not library foo" is already listed under From ... Require

> That's the way it is and do not count on me to fix this.

Not asking for that at all, for now just trying to understand whether this is indeed a weak point in Coq or the doc and if there's a solid reason for it.  We don't need to resolve this now.

I took a crack at adding some of the information you suggested in the `Libraries and filesystem` section of Gallina extensions.  Maybe I should just back that out for now--seems like too much to tack on to this PR.  The documentation for this feature is scattered/repeated in several different sections.  That makes it easy to get confused.  Also there seem to be 4 or 5 different ways to set up logical names, including by resource file and environment variables.  Maybe that's too many, or we should at least pick one or two and recommend them as the preferred directory.  But the underlying mechanism seems (probably) simple.

And how is `_CoqProject` found?  What directory(ies) are examined?

Reviewer: >  The documentation for this feature is scattered/repeated in several different sections. That makes it easy to get confused.

Yes, and we will need to consolidate it in a single place (cf. #12012).

> there seem to be 4 or 5 different ways to set up logical names, including by resource file and environment variables. Maybe that's too many, or we should at least pick one or two and recommend them

Agreed, and in fact I've already a clear view of what are the recommended best practices and what practices are discouraged, but it's a bit hard to share it like this, out of specific examples.

> And how is `_CoqProject` found? What directory(ies) are examined?

I guess you mean by IDEs (since `coq_makefile` won't "find" `_CoqProject`, you need to give it on the command-line). IDEs that I know will look for `_CoqProject` in the directory you open. E.g., if you run `coqide &` from the command-line in a specific directory, or `code . &` for VsCode (or equivalently the menu "Open directory").

file is a particular case of module called *library file*.

.. cmd:: Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @qualid }

   Loads compiled modules into the |Coq| environment.  The command
   searches the loadpath for the modules named by the :n:`@qualid`\s.  Each :n:`@qualid`
   has the form :n:`@dirpath.@ident`.  The commmand maps :n:`@dirpath` to a physical
   directory (see Section :ref:`libraries-and-filesystem`) and loads the compiled
   file :n:`@ident.vo` from that directory.  (Compiling :n:`@ident.v` generates :n:`@ident.vo`.)

   The process is applied recursively to all the added modules.
   |Coq| assumes the compiled files have been produced by a valid |Coq| compiler
   and their contents are neither replayed nor rechecked.

   .. todo "added" or "loaded"?  The latter seems better
      "valid Coq compiler" - IIRC the verion must match exactly

>       "assumes" - or gives an error?

Reviewer: Indeed, you are right on all three points.

   This prints the name of all OCaml modules loaded with :cmd:`Declare ML Module`.
   To know from where these module were loaded, the user

>    should use the command :cmd:`Locate` ``File``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   should use the command :cmd:`Locate File`.
```

      all the recursive dependencies that were marked or transitively marked
      as ``Export``.

.. cmd:: From @qualid Require {? {| Import | Export } } {+ @qualid }
   :name: From ... Require ...

   Works like :cmd:`Require`, but picks
   any library whose absolute name is of the form :n:`@dirpath.@dirpath’.@qualid`
   for some :n:`@dirpath’`. This is useful to ensure that the :token:`qualid` library
   comes from a given package by making explicit its absolute root.

>    .. exn:: Cannot load qualid: no physical path bound to dirpath.

Reviewer: Some error message below contain quoting (`:n:`) which should be removed. Some, like this one, should gain some `@`:

```suggestion
   .. exn:: Cannot load @qualid: no physical path bound to @dirpath.
```

   loadpath (see the command `Declare ML Module`` in Section :ref:`compiled-files`).

.. cmd:: Print ML Path

   This command displays the current OCaml loadpath. This
   command makes sense only under the bytecode version of ``coqtop``, i.e.

>    using option ``-byte``

Author: It's deprecated and a no-op in `coqargs.ml` but still seems to do something in coqProjec_file.ml:

`  | ("-no-opt"|"-byte") :: r -> aux { proj with use_ocamlopt =  false } r`

Remove it?

>    using option ``-byte``

Reviewer: This file is depended upon by both `coq_makefile` and CoqIDE.

Running `coqide -byte` leads to the failure:
```
Coqtop exited
Command was .../bin/coqidetop.opt -nois -batch -byte
Answer was: Unknown option -byte
```

So either CoqIDE should be fixed so that the `-byte` option makes it call `../bin/coqidetop.byte` (although this is not likely to be installed on the users' machines) or the option should be removed (simpler).
For `coq_makefile`, the option seems to be handled, but it would have to be tested (and documented).

>    using option ``-byte``

Author: You want to submit an issue?

>    using option ``-byte``

Reviewer: No, in fact I misunderstand the issue: I was wrong to consider that `-byte` passed to `coqide` has any relation to this code. `coqide -foo` behaves the same and fails similarly. In fact, any option that `coqide` does not know is passed directly to `coqidetop`.

We could open just a documentation issue saying that the `_CoqProject` format apparently supports the `-no-opt`  `-byte` options but these are not documented.

>    using option ``-byte``

Author: See #12062.

.. cmd:: Declare ML Module {+ @string }

   This commands dynamically loads the specified OCaml compiled files.

>    It is mainly used to load tactics dynamically. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It is used to load plugins dynamically. The
```
Most plugins do provide tactics but not all of them.

The description would deserve the following addition:

>This command is reserved to developers of plugins, who should provide a `.v` file containing it. Users of the plugins will generally load the `.v` file.

Author: String is a logical paths that gets mapped to a file system path, not a file system path?

Reviewer: I don't really know how this command works, but in general people write only the name of their `mllib` file without the extension and without the filesystem location either, and that works. Example: https://github.com/mattam82/Coq-Equations/blob/6a222c52bbb384c788c145b6636fe34d9375af1a/theories/Init.v#L11-L13

   files are searched into the current OCaml loadpath (see the
   command :cmd:`Add ML Path`).

>    .. todo "searched into" meaning?

Reviewer: "located in"?

.. cmd:: Back {? @num }

   Undoes all the effects of the last :n:`@num` :n:`@sentence`\s.  If
   :n:`@num` is not specified, the command undoes one sentence.
   Sentences read from a `.v` file via a :cmd:`Load` are considered a
   single sentence.  While :cmd:`Back` can undo tactics and commands executed
   within proof mode, once you exit proof mode, such as with :cmd:`Qed`, all
   the statements executed within are thereafter considered a single sentence.
   :cmd:`Back` immediately following :cmd:`Qed` gets you back to the state
   just after the statement of the proof.

>    :cmd:`Back` will not reopen a closed proof, but instead will go to the state just before that

Reviewer: This is now entirely redundant with the paragraph above which LGTM. To remove.

   discarded. In this case, :cmd:`Back` will then undo all the proof steps up to
   the statement of this proof.

>    If :n:`@num` is specified, the command undoes :n:`@num` vernacular commands.

Author: Got it, however "vernacular commands" doesn't cover tactics.  Should it be "\`@sentence\`\s"?

>    If :n:`@num` is specified, the command undoes :n:`@num` vernacular commands.

Reviewer: Yes. And I see you've fixed it already. LGTM.

   :cmd:`Back` will not reopen a closed proof, but instead will go to the state just before that

>    proof.

Author: By mentioning them separately, the original wording suggests that "proof management commands" are not "vernacular commands".  Strike that sentence?

Seems like `Back` and `Undo` should be in the same chapter and section.  WDYT?

The description doesn't explain this case clearly:  `Back` takes you to the state just before Proof or before Theorem?  Command2 info is no longer accessible at all after the Qed and so is not counted against @num?

```
Command1.
Theorem ..
Proof.
  : 
Command2
Qed.
Back.
```

>    proof.

Reviewer: I agree that "This command also handles proof management commands" suggests this, and it would be good to change it to something that doesn't, like "When handling proof management commands, ..."

> Seems like `Back` and `Undo` should be in the same chapter and section. WDYT?

Yes, and they will probably belong to the "Command-line and graphical tools" chapter.

> The description doesn't explain this case clearly: `Back` takes you to the state just before Proof or before Theorem? Command2 info is no longer accessible at all after the Qed and so is not counted against `@num`?

From my tests:

```coq
Theorem foo : True.
easy.
Qed.
```

`Back` / `Back 1` take you back at the state after `Theorem`. `Back 2` takes you back at the state before `Theorem`. So yes, the commands in proof mode are not counted against `num`.

   This command displays the current working directory.

.. cmd:: Cd {? @string }

   If :n:`@string` is specified, changes the current directory according to :token:`string` which
   can be any valid path.  Otherwise, it displays the current directory.

>    .. todo Not like Linux `cd`.  Maybe change?

Reviewer: Cf. #9148. This command is probably going away soon anyway.

.. cmd:: Add LoadPath @string as @dirpath

   .. insertprodn dirpath dirpath

   .. prodn::
      dirpath ::= @ident

>       | @dirpath @field_ident

Reviewer: This is the same as `dirpath ::= @ident {* @field_ident }`

      no timeout is applied.

.. cmd:: Fail @sentence

   For debugging scripts, sometimes it is desirable to know whether a
   command or a tactic fails. If :n:`@sentence` fails, then
   :n:`Fail @sentence` succeeds (except for
   critical errors, such as "stack overflow"), without changing the
   proof state.  In interactive mode, the system prints a message
   confirming the failure.

   .. exn:: The command has not failed!

      If the given :n:`@command` succeeds, then :n:`Fail @sentence`
      fails with this error message.

.. note:: :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail` are
   :production:`control_command`\s; for these commands, goal selectors and
   attributes must be placed after the command name and before the inner
   :n:`@sentence``.  For example, `Time :1 auto.` or `Time Timeout 10 :1 auto.`.

.. note::

   :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail` are
   :production:`control_command`\s. For these commands, attributes and goal
   selectors, when specified, are part of the :n:`@sentence` argument, and thus come after
   the control command prefix and before the inner command or tactic. For

>    example: `Time #[ local ] Definition foo := 0.` or `Fail Timeout 10 all: auto.`

Reviewer: Instead of fixing the note, you have put the fixed note below. This is responsible for the build failure. I'll push directly the fix (removal of the first note) because I appreciate being able to use the CI artifact for reviewing.

Author: Sorry, I've fallen into the habit of only looking for red-colored messages in the sphinx output.  When one runs it many times every day, it's hard to read every run with perfect attention.

Reviewer: No worries.

.. TODO : command is not a syntax entry

.. cmd:: Time @sentence

>    This command executes the vernacular command :n:`@command` and displays the

Author: I made it just "Executes :n:`@sentence`".  That it's "provided" and "Coq" should be understood.
OK?

>    This command executes the vernacular command :n:`@command` and displays the

Reviewer: LGTM

   time needed to execute it.

.. cmd:: Redirect @string @sentence

   This command executes the vernacular command :n:`@command`, redirecting its
   output to ":n:`@string`.out".

.. cmd:: Timeout @num @sentence

>    This command executes the vernacular command :n:`@command`. If the command

Author: Made it "If the operation..."

"Default Timeout" seems redundant.

      If set, each :n:`@sentence` is treated as if it was prefixed with :cmd:`Timeout` :n:`@num`,
      except that it doesn't apply to explicit :cmd:`Timeout` commands.  If unset,
      no timeout is applied.

>    This command executes the vernacular command :n:`@command`. If the command

Reviewer: I don't understand your comment about `Default Timeout`.

>    This command executes the vernacular command :n:`@command`. If the command

Author: I meant that "Timeout" is a better name than "Default Timeout".  "Default" doesn't really add anything.  While meaningful, a statement like "the default value of Default Time is unset" would seem odd.

>    This command executes the vernacular command :n:`@command`. If the command

Reviewer: OK, got it. Not worth to rename though IMHO.

   discarded. In this case, :cmd:`Back` will then undo all the proof steps up to
   the statement of this proof.

   If :n:`@num` is specified, the command undoes :n:`@num` vernacular commands.

>    Back will not reopen a closed proof, but instead will go to the state just before that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :cmd:`Back` will not reopen a closed proof, but instead will go to the state just before that
```

      If the given :n:`@command` succeeds, then :n:`Fail @command`
      fails with this error message.

> .. note:: :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail` are
>    :production:`control_command`\s; for these commands, goal selectors and
>    attributes must be placed after the command name and before the inner
>    :n:`@sentence``.  For example, `Time :1 auto.` or `Time Timeout 10 :1 auto.`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::

   :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail` are
   :production:`control_command`\s. When specified, attributes and goal
   selectors are part of the :n:`@sentence` argument, and thus come after
   the control command prefix and before the inner command or tactic. For
   example: `Time #[ local ] Definition foo := 0.` or `Fail Timeout 10 all: auto.`
```

I removed the last period which was confusing (not clear it's not part of the second example).

Author: How is this?  (Adding "For these commands" and moving "when specified" compared to your suggestion)

```
   :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail` are
   :production:`control_command`\s. For these commands, attributes and goal
   selectors, when specified, are part of the :n:`@sentence` argument, and thus come after
   the control command prefix and before the inner command or tactic. For
   example: `Time #[ local ] Definition foo := 0.` or `Fail Timeout 10 all: auto.`
```

Reviewer: LGTM!

Quitting and debugging
--------------------------

.. cmd:: Quit

   Causes |Coq| to exit.  Valid only in coqtop.

.. cmd:: Drop

   This command temporarily enters the OCaml toplevel.

>    It is a debug facility used by |Coq|’s implementers.  Valid only in coqtop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It is a debug facility used by |Coq|’s implementers.  Valid only in coqtop (bytecode version).
```

      If the given :n:`@command` succeeds, then :n:`Fail @command`
      fails with this error message.

.. note:: The commands that include a :n:`@command` (currently
   :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail`) can't
   use :cmd:`Drop`, :cmd:`Quit`, :cmd:`BackTo`, :cmd:`Show Goal`
   or :cmd:`Show Proof` as the :n:`@command`.  This is a syntatic restriction.

>    The documentation describes all of these as :n:`@command`\s for simplicity.

Reviewer: It would be great to gather all these commands that are only usable in the toplevel in a single section.

Author: If you mean :cmd:`Drop`, :cmd:`Quit`, :cmd:`BackTo`, :cmd:`Show Goal` and :cmd:`Show Proof`, I must disagree.  The limitation is an implementation detail (and shouldn't even apply to the two Show commands--that's not at all what I wanted).  They should appear in sections based on what they do.

Reviewer: This is not an accident that `Drop`, `Quit`, `BackTo` can only be used in `coqtop`, this is on purpose. These are special commands to control the state of the document.

Contrary to what you wrote, `Show Proof` is compatible with `Fail`, it's just `Show Proof Diffs` which isn't, and you are right that this is an accident that this variant arrived in this category, but nonetheless, it is important to highlight that this is only usable in `coqtop` and thus that IDE users must use a similar function provided by their IDE instead.

Finally, regarding `Show Goal`, it is clearly a command for internal use only since you must know state ID numbers to use it.

Anyway, now that I think about it again, I agree that gathering the latter two commands with the first three is not a good idea. But I also come to think that this note is quite useless as well, since most users won't be able to use these commands anyway.

What wouldn't be useless would be to note that for the query commands that accept a goal selector, or for the tactics, `Fail` *et al.* come *in front* of the goal selector. And they must also come *in front* of attributes. In fact, the commands should really not take a `@command` as an argument but a `@vernacular`.

Author: > the commands should really not take a `@command` as an argument but a `@vernacular`.

The selector syntax is not entirely correct.  I'd rather not address that in this PR.  So I will leave it as `@command` for now.

Reviewer: What is the issue with replacing the `@command` with `@vernacular`?

Author: It would take me time to figure out why I had that impression or if it's OK.  Too many parallel threads in this PR, many of which require research.  I've been at this for at least the last 11 hours.

Reviewer: Well, I'm pretty sure this is OK and better than `command`.

> I've been at this for at least the last 11 hours.

Take it easy, there's no rush to finish this chapter. I've tried to provide quicker feedback to you than it used to be the case, but the faster you react, the more work it is for me too :stuck_out_tongue_closed_eyes:

Author: I guess we could use `@vernacular`.  I don't fully follow how the code works for `noedit_mode` and `tactic_mode`, so a bit hesitant about that.  Probably not worth going into that now.

I think we should extend `vernacular` to show `toplevel_selector` and perhaps to break out `query_command`, referencing a ```:production:`query_command` ``` in the Query commands section.  Also I still tend to think we should cover this note in the grammar; the word picture describing where the goal selector and attributes go is less understandable than a grammar:

```
For :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail`,
the goal selector and any attributes that apply to the :n:`@command` must
appear after the outer command name (e.g. after `Time`).
```

We should also accurately describe `Info`, which can take a selector and allows ending the sentence with  `...`.  What does the ellipsis do?  The selector can only be `par:` or, like query_command, a single number?

Of course, we've not done the chapters covering selectors or Ltac.

And FWIW not quite done with the grammar for BULLET and `{` ... `}` in proofs, either.

What do you think?

Author: > Take it easy, there's no rush to finish this chapter.

Indeed, let's not overdo it.  It's a marathon, not a sprint.

Reviewer: > I guess we could use `@vernacular`. I don't fully follow how the code works for `noedit_mode` and `tactic_mode`, so a bit hesitant about that. Probably not worth going into that now.
> 
> I think we should extend `vernacular` to show `toplevel_selector` and perhaps to break out `query_command`, referencing a `` :production:`query_command` `` in the Query commands section. Also I still tend to think we should cover this note in the grammar; the word picture describing where the goal selector and attributes go is less understandable than a grammar:
> 
> ```
> For :cmd:`Time`, :cmd:`Redirect`, :cmd:`Timeout` and :cmd:`Fail`,
> the goal selector and any attributes that apply to the :n:`@command` must
> appear after the outer command name (e.g. after `Time`).
> ```

Maybe we should rename this strange `vernacular` non-terminal into something that's easier to understand, e.g. `sentence`. Then it's quite easy to explain and to understand that a Coq document is composed of Coq sentences that end with dots. `Fail`, `Redirect`, etc. are sentence transformers that take a complete Coq sentence (including any attribute and goal selector) and return a Coq sentence (whose meaning is possibly altered).

> We should also accurately describe `Info`, which can take a selector and allows ending the sentence with  `...`.  What does the ellipsis do?  The selector can only be `par:` or, like query_command, a single number?

Forget about `Info` for the moment. This "command" is an heresy. It starts with a capital letter, but morally speaking it is just a tactical (i.e. a tactic transformer). From a grammar perspective, it behaves exactly as any tactic. It accepts any kind of goal selector. The trailing `...` are not specific to `Info`. They are accepted in proof mode after any tactic if you start your proof using `Proof with @tactic.` The fact that they are hard-coded in the grammar of `Info` (and accepted even without `Proof with`) is yet another compatibility quirk.

Author: I added `sentence` as well as `query_command` and `control_command`.  Think this is both accurate and readily understood.  We can deal with `tactic_mode: | OPT toplevel_selector "{"` and `Info` later.

I covered the ` Proof with` case for `...`.  This seems like a rather limited feature.  Is it important or a bit of a legacy feature/syntactic sugar?

BTW, it looks like CoqIDE doesn't handle `...`.  It get stuck after the first period; I can't get it to process anything after it in the buffer (using 8.10.1):

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/78615323-0703c780-7826-11ea-97e3-96e72e83b4df.png)

Reviewer: This is parsed correctly for me both in 8.10.2 and 8.11.0. If you manage to reproduce this bug in a more recent version, it would be good to report it.

But no, this is not an important feature. On the contrary, this is a feature that most Coq developers probably disapprove today. I once tried to use it in the stdlib and was discouraged from using this style. It requires special UI support, for something that in the end could be replaced by `Ltac z := auto.` and `;z.` instead of `...` (same number of characters). It would be interesting to run a CI experiment to estimate the impact of removing this feature.

Author: Yeah, it works correctly in 8.11.0.

In the `theories` directory I count 47 occurrences of `Proof with`  and 405 occurrences of `...` (a few of which are in comments).  Maybe worthwhile removing those uses at some point--users (and I) may use them as stylistic clues.  We could discuss deprecating/removing the feature, too.  I could submit an issue.

Reviewer: >users (and I) may use them as stylistic clues

What do you mean?

Author: Meaning I search through the .v files and if I see something that appears useful, I emulate it.  *Many* months ago you mentioned that those files use some older, no longer recommended tactics.  Would be better if the .v files used best practices.

Reviewer: OK, got it. Indeed, you are right. The only thing we ensure in the stdlib is that it does not use deprecated features.

Author: Is it worth replacing the `...` and/or adding a note for `Proof with` about alternative?  Or adding it to the list of enhancements identified during the doc update (as I suggested above)?  Perhaps such a list would be useful for considering relative priority.

Reviewer: It makes sense to put it in the list. It may not indeed have top priority.

   the usual defined constants, whose actual values are of course
   relevant in general.

>    .. exn:: The reference @smart_qualid was not found in the current environment.

Reviewer: This error message also appeared in the `Transparent` command and should have been fixed in the same way. There's no point in repeating it (it's the same error), so I would remove the one in `Opaque`.

Author: Should the message text have @smart_qualid or @qualid?

Reviewer: In fact, it should be `qualid` because the error message is not the same if you provide a `string` that could not be associated to a `qualid`. In this case, the error message is "`Unable to interpret @string as a reference.`"

That being said, these two error messages are not specific to `Opaque` and `Transparent` and ideally, they should be documented only once, in the documentation of `smart_qualid`. For now, it is defined in the grammar of `Arguments`, but eventually it should be moved and properly explained in the "Syntax extensions" chapter.

Author: I left the message here for now.

      | expand
      | transparent

   This command accepts the :attr:`local` attribute, which limits its effect
   to the current section or module, in which case the section and module
   behavior is the same as :cmd:`Opaque` and :cmd:`Transparent` (without :attr:`global`).

   This command generalizes the behavior of the :cmd:`Opaque` and :cmd:`Transparent`
   commands. It is used to fine-tune the strategy for unfolding
   constants, both at the tactic level and at the kernel level. This
   command associates a :n:`@strategy_level` with the qualified names in the :n:`@smart_qualid`
   sequence. Whenever two
   expressions with two distinct head constants are compared (for
   instance, this comparison can be triggered by a type cast), the one
   with lower level is expanded first. In case of a tie, the second one
   (appearing in the cast type) is expanded.

   Levels can be one of the following (higher to lower):

    + ``opaque`` : level of opaque constants. They cannot be expanded by
      tactics (behaves like +∞, see next item).
    + :n:`@int` : levels indexed by an integer. Level 0 corresponds to the
      default behavior, which corresponds to transparent constants. This

>       level can also be referred to as transparent. Negative levels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      level can also be referred to as ``transparent``. Negative levels
```

      correspond to constants to be expanded before normal transparent
      constants, while positive levels correspond to constants to be
      expanded after normal transparent constants.
    + ``expand`` : level of constants that should be expanded first (behaves
      like −∞)

>     + ``transparent`` : TBA

Reviewer: This is like level 0. Cf. the description of `int`.

.. cmd:: Print Strategy @smart_qualid

   This command prints the strategy currently associated with :n:`@smart_qualid`. It
   fails if :n:`@smart_qualid` is not an unfoldable reference, that is, neither a
   variable nor a constant.

   .. exn:: The reference is not unfoldable.
      :undocumented:

.. cmd:: Print Strategies

   Print all the currently non-transparent strategies.

> .. cmd:: Declare Reduction @ident := @red_expr

Reviewer: In the description of this command, the `Local` modifier should be replaced by the `local` attribute for consistency with the rest of the documentation.

Author: "For the moment, the name is not qualified." Is it or isn't it?

Seems like this may be another obscure feature that's not so valuable.

```
   Declares a short name for the reduction expression :n:`@red_expr`, for
   instance ``lazy beta delta [foo bar]``. This short name can then be used
   in :n:`Eval @ident in` or ``eval`` constructs. This command
   accepts the :attr:`local` attribute, which indicates that the reduction
   will be discarded at the end of the
```

Reviewer: No, that's quite valuable I think. Anyway, I know at least Jason Gross is a user. This is useful if you want to use `Eval ... in` with a custom reduction strategy without having to repeat the (possibly complex) reduction strategy each time. However, there is no justification for this name being not qualified. That's also the case of a bunch of other things: scopes, hint databases, etc. They should all become qualified, but this might create compatibility issues.

Author: I removed "For the moment".

Is it worth creating an enhancement request to use more qualified identifiers in more places?

Reviewer: Yes!

Author: See #12063.

Exposing constants to OCaml libraries
````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

> .. cmd:: Register @qualid as @qualid

Reviewer: Please undo this change. The grammar checker should be able to discard indices before verifying that a `cmd` corresponds to the actual grammar and should not change them if it does. This is really important because in case of repeated nonterminals, it is quite useful to be able to distinguish them in the description.

Author: Sure, but if the line doesn't match exactly after removing subscripts, there's a message.  The developer will have to do the update manually and perhaps adjust the subscripts.

Reviewer: If the line doesn't match exactly after removing subscripts, the tool could update the line with the correct replacement, with no subscripts. The developer can then intervene manually to add subscripts if they are useful. They have to intervene anyway to fix the description of the command so that's not a big deal.

Author: It could.  We can decide when we're closer to adding the tool to the CI build.  There will definitely be messages the developer has to deal with manually.  For example, there will be a message like "nonterminal 'foo' not included in the rst files".  In most cases, only the developer knows where that nonterminal should appear.  And if it shouldn't appear, there should be an edit that removes it from `orderedGrammar`.  IMHO better to draw the developers attention to the details rather than rely on them reading the updates carefully (or for the review process to catch a glitch).

Reviewer: This might not be trivial to figure out what is the exact thing to put in there if the tool doesn't update it automatically. But the tool could still print a warning when things have been changed in the doc, with the files and line numbers, telling the developer to review and adapt.

Author: This is how it works now when it doesn't match (note "as" -> "as2"):

```
Warning: doc/sphinx/proof-engine/vernacular-commands.rst line 1139: NO MATCH `Register @qualid__1 as @qualid__2`
Warning: doc/sphinx/proof-engine/vernacular-commands.rst line 1139: BEST `Register @qualid as2 @qualid`
```

Reviewer: OK, seems good enough :+1:

Author: One further daydream: if messages are formatted correctly and the build is run from within the developer's IDE, many IDEs parse the location of each message and provide a command to jump to file/line # for the next message.  But different IDEs may expect different formatting.  At the moment, doc_grammar doesn't have an easy way to report the line number for `common.edit_mlg` messages.  And I don't think you can usefully associate a "nonterminal XXX doesn't appear the rsts" with a specific line in the input.

Registering primitive operations
````````````````````````````````

> .. cmd:: Primitive @ident {? : @term } := # @ident__prim

Reviewer: Would there be a way to remove the space after `#`? What about having the grammar checker ignore the missing spaces just like it ignores the additional subscripts?

Author: Sure.  Actually it's a tweak to how productions are printed, similar to those for "." and "?".

Reviewer: OK cool, then could you also include `@` in this category?

Author: Does the lexer require no space between `@` and what follows?  And if not, why suppress the space?

Also, at the moment the space is suppressed only before `ident` tokens.  While that can be changed, let's be restrained in adding grammar-specific things in the code.

`"@"` appears only in these productions for various nonterminals.

```
| "@" qualid OPT univ_annot LIST0 term1
| "@" qualid OPT univ_annot
| term0 ".(" "@" qualid LIST0 ( term1 ) ")"
| "@" "?" ident LIST1 ident
| "@" qualid LIST0 pattern1
```

Reviewer: OK never mind. Spaces are allowed after the @.

   Declares :n:`@ident` as the primitive type or primitive operator :n:`#@ident__prim` (defined in OCaml).
   For internal use by implementors of |Coq|'s standard library or standard library
   replacements.  No space is allowed after the `#`.  Invalid values give a syntax
   error.

   For example, the standard library files `Int63.v` and `PrimFloat.v` use :cmd:`Primitive`
   to support, respectively, the features described in :ref:`primitive-integers` and
   :ref:`primitive-floats`.

   The type associated with an operator must be declared before declaring operations that
   use that type.  For example, in `Int63.v`, `#int63_type` must be declared before the
   associated operations.

   When running this command, the type of the primitive should be already known by
   the kernel (this is achieved through this command for primitive types and
   through the :cmd:`Register` command with the :g:`kernel` name-space for other
   types).

   .. exn:: The type @ident must be registered before this construction can be typechecked.
      :undocumented:

      The referenced type must be defined with :cmd:`Primitive` command before this

>       cmd:`Primitive` command (declaring an operation using the type) will succeed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :cmd:`Primitive` command (declaring an operation using the type) will succeed.
```

Registering primitive operations
````````````````````````````````

> .. cmd:: Primitive @ident {? : @term } := @register_token

Reviewer: I'm really surprised that the list of registrable tokens is in the parser, but it is probably too much for the user documentation, especially as this is an internal command. So please add some rules to `common.edit_mlg` to define `register_token` as `#@ident` then revert this change (in particular, keep the indices).

Author: > I'm really surprised that the list of registrable tokens is in the parser

Agreed.

But we should say something about what values are valid, because `Primitive foo :=#bar` gives the error `Error: Syntax Error: Lexer: Undefined token`.

These don't look too great, either.  `#float64_type` and `#int63_type` are supposed to be valid:

```
Coq < Primitive foo := #float64_type.
Toplevel input, characters 17-18:
> Primitive foo := #float64_type.
>                  ^
Error: Syntax Error: Lexer: Undefined token

Coq < Primitive foo2 := #int63_type.
Toplevel input, characters 0-30:
> Primitive foo2 := #int63_type.
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Error:
Anomaly
"File "kernel/primred.ml", line 15, characters 19-25: Assertion failed."
Please report at http://coq.inria.fr/bugs/.

Coq < Primitive foo := #int63_head0.
Toplevel input, characters 0-30:
> Primitive foo := #int63_head0.
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Error:
The type int must be registered before this construction can be typechecked.
```

Reviewer: The first two worked for me in 8.11.0 (no syntax error, no anomaly). I think you are testing this in a version of Coq that's too old (maybe Coq 8.10). The last one gave the error message, but this error message is reasonably clear to me. The fix is to add `Primitive bar := #int63_type.` before. Since these are internal commands to be used only by implementors of Coq's standard library, or standard library replacements, do you think it would be reasonable to refer to the theory files which contain these `Primitive` operations for the reference of which values are valid? The files are `theories/Floats/PrimFloat.v` and `theories/Numbers/Cyclic/Int63/Int63.v`. They contain 44 calls to the `Primitive` command, corresponding to the 44 accepted values.

See also the descriptions here: https://coq.github.io/doc/master/refman/language/gallina-extensions.html#primitive-floats

Author: Ugh, I installed 8.11 but ran coqtop in the 8.10 directory :-(.  Will update.

Author: Check it out.  Is the part about Register useful?  There is no Register in the referenced .v files.

```
   When running this command, the type of the primitive should be already known by
   the kernel (this is achieved through this command for primitive types and
   through the :cmd:`Register` command with the :g:`kernel` name-space for other
   types).
```

Reviewer: I don't understand what you wrote here. The two files I referenced were about `Primitive` declarations only. As for the difference between `Primitive` and `Register`, it is pretty simple: `Register` is so that OCaml code knows about (and can manipulate) objects that were defined in a `.v` file whereas `Primitive` is to give names in a `.v` files to objects that are primitive because they were defined in OCaml code. There are many tactics that need to manipulate some specific Coq objects, and thus `git grep "Register" -- theories/` will give you a very long list.
